






Skip to main content


































                Bloody Elbow
              



Bloody Elbow, for MMA and UFC news












Log In or Sign Up



Log In


Sign Up













              Fanposts
              
              



              Fanshots
              
              



              Sections
              
                




              Library
              
                




              Odds
              
              



              About
              
              



              Masthead
              
              



              Community Guidelines
              
              



              StubHub
              
              




            More
            







          All 322 blogs on






























            Fanposts
            
          



            Fanshots
            
          



            Sections
            
              




UFC Fight Night: Lineker vs. McDonald


UFC on Fox: Holm vs. Shevchenko


UFC 200: Tate vs. Nunes




UFC Fight Night: Dos Anjos vs. Alvarez


TUF 23 Finale: Jedrzejczyk vs. Gadelha 2


Full Archive






          Library
          
            




Bloody Elbow Grappling


Bloody Elbow Media


MMA Resources




MMA Histories


The Judo Chops






            Odds
            
          



            About
            
          



            Masthead
            
          



            Community Guidelines
            
          



            StubHub
            
          















Filed under:



Boxing




Crime





Baltimore mayor suggests boxing bouts could help reduce citys violent crime




    New,
  


      33
    
comments




Mayor Jack Young is considering creating public boxing rings for people to settle disputes. 

  
    By
    
Tim Bissell@timobiss



        Jun  6, 2019, 10:00am EDT
      






Share



Tweet






Share



Share
Baltimore mayor suggests boxing bouts could help reduce citys violent crime




tweet



share








Reddit





Pocket







Flipboard



Email


















An aerial view of Baltimore City skyline on December 1, 2016 in Baltimore, Maryland.
Photo by Patrick Smith/Getty Images



After an especially violent weekend in Baltimore, MD  a deadly stabbing and eight shootings  city leaders are calling for outside-the-box thinking to help solve the citys violent crime rate. 
WBALTV reports that one of the unconventional ideas being discussed, by city Mayor Jack Young, is letting people fight  with their fists  to solve their issues. 
Gun violence has been plaguing this city for the last 10 years, said Young to reporters. The murder rate in this city and non-fatal shootings have increased. Im not happy with it and neither should the citizens of Baltimore.
Young spoke to reporters while attending a National Gun Violence Awareness Day event that sought to connect young people with employment resources and thus discourage them from picking up guns. 
City States Attorney Marilyn Mosby quoted American philosopher and abolitionist Frederick Douglas when commenting about the event, saying that its, easier to build strong children than it is to repair broken men.
In the shootings that occurred over the weekend, one of the fatalities was a 17-year-old boy. Mayor Young, who lost a nephew to gun violence, spoke about why he boxing matches could help the city. 
If they want to really settle them, we can have them down at the civic center, put a boxing ring up and let them box it out, said Young. Those kinds of things, you know, and the best man wins and the beef should be over. Those are some of the things Im thinking about.
Mosby added that, in order to stop violent crime, the city cant just count on the police or the mayors office or City Hall. The biggest and most important stakeholder in all of this is the community. 
WBALTV asked Baltimore residents what they thought of the mayors idea to have young people fight each other as a remedy to violent crime. 
That is the best idea ever because right now, the kids dont even know how to fight, said Larry Wallace.
Yolanda Pulley did not agree with Wallace or Mayor Young. For you to promote a boxing ring for our city streets, one, are they going have to pay to get in, or, two, this is going to be like Athens all over again. I understand its history repeating itself, but thats by far the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard in my life.
City Council President Brandon Scott is also not keen on the idea. I am not the person who wants us to go that route. I understand what the mayor is saying, and I understand that there are people across the city who remember a time when disputes used to be handled that way.
David Sewell, the co-owner of Charm City Boxing, was also asked about the proposal. If you fight someone in the ring, you get rewarded for it, but when you fight somebody in the streets, you get rewarded, but youre in prison. You know what I mean, so which route would you rather go? Sewell said.
Using boxing to curb violent crime isnt a new idea. The concept has been suggested in the United Kingdom, which is enduring a dramatic rise in knife crime. However, though academic research has shown punitive approaches to violent crime and gang activity often further alienate young people, there is a lack of evidence that boxing or any other combat sport can make a tangible difference. 


    Related
  
Teacher charged for alleged fight club in classroom
Math teacher accused of running fight club for students
Fight clubs uncovered inside Florida juvenile detention centers 






Latest From Our Partners




Nightmare Matchup for UFC's Biggest Stars
Greatest Highlights of Anderson Silva's Career
Top Contenders for Fight of the Year
Which is More Dangerous - MMA or Football?
Timeline of Israel Adesanya's Rapid Rise to UFC Contender
Brock Lesnar's WWE Future After UFC Retirement



Latest From MMA Warehouse




ProMax 440 BJJ GI
Standard Ranked Rashguard
Standard BJJ Gi
King Ryan Longsleeve Shirt
Good Night Tee
Gordon Ryan Competition Kit
Lockdown duffle bag
More:
Apparel
Accessories
Gloves
Sale










    More From
    
        Bloody Elbow



UFC on ESPN: Ngannou vs. Dos Santos results and post-fight analysis


Pros react to Ngannous brutal TKO of JDS at UFC Minneapolis


UFC Minneapolis bonuses: Ngannou smashes dos Santos in POTN win


UFC Minneapolis results: Ngannou wrecks JDS


Jon Jones reacts to Hamills disrespect and rematch offer 


UFC on ESPN: Ngannou vs. Dos Santos live results, discussion, play by play 




















            Most Read
          













Pros react to Ngannous brutal TKO of JDS at UFC Minneapolis
Francis Ngannou knocked out Junior dos Santos early into their fight at UFC Minneapolis. On Twitter, pro fighters reacted to the fight.












UFC on ESPN: Ngannou vs. Dos Santos results and post-fight analysis
Tim B. takes a look at an up-and-down UFC on ESPN event in Minneapolis.












UFC Minneapolis bonuses: Ngannou smashes dos Santos in POTN win
Check out which fighters won performance bonuses from UFC Fight Night: Ngannou vs. dos Santos.
















  This Article has a component height of 15. The sidebar size is medium.












Loading comments...













Chorus




FanPosts
FanShots
Masthead
Community Guidelines
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube

















Contact
Have a News Tip?
Browse Blogs
About SBN
Company Blog
Blog Openings
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines

Vox Media

Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
GDPR Commitment
Communications Preferences
Advertise with us
Jobs @ Vox Media







  All Systems Operational
  Check out our status page for more details.




         2019 Vox Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved
        
          Sports data  STATS 2018 | SB Nation Combat
        
    










          tweet
        




          share
        













