 






The Daily Wire



News
Podcasts
Authors
Store
Login
Search


Subscribe






Advertisements

On
Off





We're taking a whole new approach.
Start reading The Daily Wire WITHOUT ADS*Try it FREE for 30 Days!





E-mail *



 By checking this box, I have read and agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy and authorize Forward Publishing LLC to charge my card today for the subscription fee and in the future for renewal fees. *

Already a Member?
Login Now
Leave this field blank 


 *Internal promotions, recommended
content, and ads that enhance the user experience may still be included on the site.
 This site is secured with 256-bit SSL encryption. Your information is safe.










Donald Trump
Illegal Immigration
Democratic Party
Transgender
2020 Election
LGBT











DailyWire.com
Chicago Sees Most Violent Weekend Of 2019 With 52 Shot, 10 Killed




Scott Olson / Staff / Getty Images 














By

Emily Zanotti 


@emzanotti 






June 3, 2019 


 views




Chicago finished last year with a downturn in shootings and homicides, but 2019 is threatening to reverse whatever progress was made in the last months of 2018, and with the weather turning warmer, it seems Chicagoans are determined to have a bloody summer. 








Over the weekend, Chicago saw its most violent days and nights so far this year. A total of 52 people were shot between Friday night and Sunday night. Ten of those victims were killed, according to NBC News. Chicago police superintendent Eddie Johnson called the incidents part of a despicable level of violence, and promised targeted patrols in neighborhoods on the south and west side where violence has become a regular part of everyday life, thanks to increases in gang activity. Johnson did note that police likely prevented a bloodier couple of days; over the course of the weekend, officers confiscated approximately 90 firearms, nearly double the amount of guns that we take in during a particular weekend. Nearly 20 people were arrested on firearms charges alone. Chicago had hoped for an immediate downward trend, as Lori Lightfoot took over the mayor's office from Rahm Emanuel, who often found himself incapable of handling such intense levels of violence, but as Lightfoot herself pointed out last week, handling the gang warfare taking place on the city's south and west sides will take time and a lot of police and community cooperation. 





Chicago is not the country's most violent city  by far. In fact, it doesn't even crack the top ten most dangerous cities in America according to USA Today and the FBI's Uniform Crime Report. Chicago ranks well behind cities like St. Louis, Missouri; Detroit, Michigan; Baltimore, Maryland; and Memphis, Tennessee. In fact, the city is currently listed as the 21st most violent, based on per capita homicides and the violent crime rate. Shootings in the city fell 13% in the first few months of 2019 and the city has added 1,000 new officers to the Chicago Police Department's patrol section. Year-to-date, the city has seen around 970 shootings total, down a bit from last year. Around 200 of those shootings were eventually ruled homicides. 





But as this weekend demonstrates, there's a deeper concern about how violence in Chicago has become a way of life, and how little police make a difference as compared to a year ago. According to Johnson, gang members have been emboldened and care little for police presence. In one case, over the weekend, a CPD commander was only a half-block away when a shooter opened fire in the city's Austin neighborhood. Targeted patrols do make a difference, but there are limitations, as CPD saw earlier this year when an officer and his partner were surrounded and taunted until they released an offender who'd been captured after a foot chase. The incident was captured on video and the men who incited the crowd were eventually arrested, but not until after the original offender was released and the two officers were forced to flee the scene. With warmer weather, the violence is also creeping into neighborhoods that border Chicago's tourist attractions. A shooting occurred near Navy Pier recently, and two men were shot over the weekend near Northwestern University's campus, on the northern edge of the city near a handful of tony suburbs.



Read More:

Chicago 

Crime 























Recommended For You







What's Your Reaction?

View the discussion thread. 
View Comments





























Unlock video podcasts and watch LIVE
Subscribe




The Ben Shapiro Show


Latest Episode
Ep. 810 - Fight Night: Round 1






The Andrew Klavan Show


Latest Episode
Ep. 723 - The Racist Democrats are Back






The Michael Knowles Show


Latest Episode
Ep. 373 - Los Democrats Son Muy Estpidos






The Matt Walsh Show


Latest Episode
Ep. 285 - Democrats Put Their Insanity On Full Display






Sunday Special


Latest Episode
Sunday Special Ep 56: Mark Levin






The Conversation


Latest Episode
Ep. 21: Michael Knowles






Daily Wire Backstage


Latest Episode
Censor This!!!






Another Kingdom


Latest Episode
Ep. 10 - The Last Dragon






{{ site.title }}
























Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise
Book Speakers
Contact
Internships


 Copyright 2019, The Daily Wire













