

















 
 






Maritime Herald



 



 






Home
Jobs
Environment
Maritime Business
Offshore
Piracy
Ports
Shipping Accidents
Shipyards
Contacts
 









The Most Dangerous Sea In The World, Land Of Pirates

0PiracyJune 26, 2019

A+
A-


Email
Print






Tweet
Sponsored byhttp://www.criaderodecaracoles.com/category/baba-de-caracol/






The oil coasts of West Africa are a nest of sharks that go around.
In 2009, navigating the waters off the coast of Somalia was a path with bad omens. The pirates were stalking and that was a sea of sharks. So much so that the armies of different powers decided to move their fleets of war to the Indian Ocean , patrol and persecute the evildoers, mostly Somalis seeking with their outrages to collect rewards. For 2011, the effort paid off and piracy announced its withdrawal.
The pirates decided to move to less controlled areas on the other side of the African continent, which now the waters that bathe the beaches of West Africa are the most dangerous sea in the world.
A report by One Earth Future, which annually disseminates the state of maritime piracy, labeled the rich African oil coast in this way.
And he maintains that while pirates come in descent in other parts of the planet, they thrive there with worrying vitality.
Depending on where they act, pirates will be pirates or mere thieves.
That is to say if they attack a merchant ship on the high seas, where there is no jurisdiction of any country, there are pirates.
If they operate within the territorial waters of a country and within port areas, they are thieves who steal in the sea.
But the One Earth report uses both cases to refer to the increase in piracy in the region, and in fact accounted for 112 acts of piracy in 2018.
Pirates do not just go for the huge tankers or oil tankers, which carry crude or gas from Nigeria or Ghana. Commercial ships and even smaller ships can fall into their networks.
The coasts in front of Nigeria are the most vulnerable, partly because of what is already called the petro-piracy, which searches for oil tankers.
The Nigerian or Lagos ports, where these ships load or unload, do not escape from the pirates either.
And then there are the kidnappings to ask for ransom . These pirates operate in a wider area that includes the coasts of Benin, Ghana, Nigeria, Congo-Brazzaville and Cameroon.
Rich harvests at sea, political instability, lack of law enforcement and poverty on land are factors that have contributed to the rise of piracy.
Most of the affected sailors are not from the region. About half are from the Philippines, followed by India and Ukraine.

Unlike the East Coast sister (where the multinational patrol effort coupled with strong local action inland improved the situation), in West Africa there is a resurgence of transnational crime, lamented recently, the president of Togo Faure Gnassingb.
But there is another area in trouble, an area with many problems, in reality: Venezuela.
Attacks against maritime transport in the Caribbean and off the coasts of Latin America have been growing. Venezuela, in particular.
The country managed by Nicols Maduro has become a point of access for piracy.

The reason: political and economic instability is an important factor, says Lydelle Joubert, piracy expert at One Earth Future.

Source: Clarin






Posted by Coricia
Marketing manager and co-Chief Editor of Maritime Herald.





Like to share?











Related Maritime NewsSeattle Is The First City in the US to Ban StrawNORWAY CREATES THE FIRST AUTONOMOUS MARITIME TRANSPORT COMPANYVIDEO: A Killer Whale Boasts Before a Scientist of the Prey She Has Just Hunted 

Newer PostThe Harsh Reality Of Immigrants Seeking To Reach The United States (WARNING Graphic Photos)
Older PostThe Incredible Face-To-Face Between A Child And A Terrifying Sea Creature That Suddenly Emerged From The Water (VIDEO)



Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 





 



 



Follow Us in Social Networks
June 2019


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




 May






12


3456789


10111213141516


17181920212223


24252627282930


Maritime Herald team Viliyana Filipova
Founder and Chief Editor
Varna, Bulgaria
vfilipova(at)maritimeherald.com
Svilen Petrov
Marketing Manager
Varna, Bulgaria
spetrov(at)maritimeherald.com
Stefani Igaz
Editor and Writer
Brussels, Belgium
sigaz(at)maritimeherald.com
Gordon Smith
Editor and Writer
Los Angeles, USA
gsmith(at)maritimeherald.com
all contacts
 






			Copyright 2016 by Maritime Herald Contacts|Advertise



Scroll






 