






















About us
Contact
Grid Style
Home en
Illicit Trade News Network
Legal Mentions
Notre quipe
Our Authors
Submit your Articles




Connect with us



 





 






























Illicit Trade News Network

US Coast Guard seizes over 3.5 tonnes of smuggled garlic from traffickers boat in Caribbean

























Publications

Articles
Dataviz
Opinion


Trafficking

Illicit Firearms Trade
Illicit Tobacco & Alcohol Trade
Human trafficking
Illicit Pharmaceuticals Trade
Illicit Goods Trade
Drug Trafficking
Counterfeit Currency
Illicit Fuel Trade
Others


Crime Types

Contraband
Counterfeits
Cyber


Key reports
 




















Articles
US Coast Guard seizes over 3.5 tonnes of smuggled garlic from traffickers boat in Caribbean


 


Published 1 day ago on 26 June 2019



By Guillaume Goudreau 







 




































Share




Tweet






























A US Coast Guard vessel has returned from a patrol of the Caribbean after its crew members intercepted a garlic smugglers boat.
During a two-month tour that saw officers inspect international vessels throughout the Caribbean basin, Coast Guard Cutter Vigilant stopped a go-fast vessel that was found to be illegally smuggling more than 3.5 tonnes of garlic from Haiti to the Dominican Republic.
In a statement, the Coast Guard explained how garlic smuggling is a rising problem across the globe and has had a negative impact on the agricultural industry in the Dominican Republic over the past few years.
After being informed of the discovery of the smuggled garlic, the Dominican government sent a navy ship to meet the Vigilant and take the traffickers into custody to prepare them for prosecution.
The smuggled garlic was estimated to be worth around $30,000 and was the largest seizure of its kind ever made by the Coast Guard.
As well as impounding the smuggled garlic, the Vigilants 59-day mission also saw officers return 50 migrants from Haiti back to their home country after disrupting a dangerous and illegal attempted sea crossing.
In May last year, it was reported that Thai customs officials, the countrys Commerce Ministry and its military had come together to tackle a large rise in the trafficking of garlic from neighbouring countries, a phenomenon that was causing the domestic price of the commodity to slump.
It was suspected at the time that organised criminal gangs were smuggling large quantities of garlic into the country from nations such as China, where it costs significantly less to produce than it does in Thailand.
Last November, Chinas state-run Xinhua news agency reported that police in Thailand had arrested two alleged smugglers who were attempting to traffic red onion and garlic across the Mekong River from Laos.
In total, the illicit shipment of vegetables weighed more than 2.8 tonnes and was estimated at the time to be worth some 3,000.
Two Thai truck drivers were detained on suspicion of smuggling the onions and garlic.
The smuggling of garlic has become a major issue for economies in Southeast Asia and Europe, which have been targeted by gangs trafficking huge shipments of the plant from China, which was estimated to be responsible for 72.8% of global garlic exports in 2016.


Related posts:
Nikes menacing balaclava prompts criticism the firm is cashing in on violent UK gang culture 
Western Balkans crackdown on organised criminals sees people smugglers, drug traffickers and arms dealers rounded up 
International experts gather in France to discuss rising threat of chemical terror attacks 
Interpol hosts meeting on growing popularity of Altcoins among organised criminals 
Interpol leads global crackdown on criminal maritime pollution 


 


Related Topics:_featuredCaribbeansmuggled garlicUS Coast Guard










Up Next
China bans meat imports from Canada after discovery of counterfeit pork health certificates














Don't Miss
UN report reveals huge rise in opioid abuse and cocaine production


















Continue Reading










Articles
China bans meat imports from Canada after discovery of counterfeit pork health certificates


 


Published 1 day ago on 26 June 2019


By Guillaume Goudreau 






 



The Chinese government has said it will temporarily block the importation of meat from Canada after customs authorities discovered a batch of pork accompanied by as many as 188 counterfeit veterinary health certificates.
Investigators in China launched a probe after a shipment of Canadian pork products was found to be contaminated with residue of restricted feed additive ractopamine, which is used to promote leanness in farm animals and has been banned in several countries.
While outlawed in China and the European Union, ractopamine is still used widely across North America, despite the fact that the additive has been linked to adverse effects in pigs, and that its effects on human health remain relatively untested.
The decision to block meat imports from Canada was made immediately after the ractopamine residue was found, Chinese customs authorities said, adding that their counterparts in Ottawa believe the forging of the veterinary health certificates may constitute a criminal offence.
In a statement, the Chinese embassy in Canada said: These forged certificates were sent to the Chinese regulatory authorities through Canadian official certificate notification channel, which reflects that the Canadian meat export supervision system exists obvious safety loopholes.
In order to protect the safety of Chinese consumers, China has taken urgent preventive measures and requested the Canadian government to suspend the issuance of certificates for meat exported to China since June 25.
We hope the Canadian side would attach great importance to this incident, complete the investigation as soon as possible and take effective measures to ensure the safety of food exported to China in a more responsible manner.
In response, as spokesperson for the Canadian government said the discovery of the counterfeit certificates had been referred to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) for investigation, while the countrys Agriculture Minister Marie-Claude Bibeau confirmed that the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) had been in touch with its Chinese counterpart in reaction to the forgery allegations.
CFIA is investigating this technical issue and has informed appropriate law enforcement agencies. This incident is specific to export certificates to China. Export certificates to other countries are not affected, Bibeau said.
The incident comes at a time when diplomatic relations between the two countries remains strained after Canadian police arrested a senior Huawei executive at the beginning of December last year.
The Associated Press reports that China has renewed a demand in the wake of meat imports revelations that Ottawa approve the immediate release Meng Wanzhou, who is currently fighting extradition to the US in relation to allegations that she violated sanctions on Iran.


Related posts:
Chinese woman from LA jailed for smuggling US technology secrets to her home country 
Canadian national facing death penalty in China for smuggling an enormous amount of drugs into the country 
Trudeau slams death sentence for Canadian man convicted of smuggling methamphetamine in China 
Australian police charge members of family-run gang who smuggled stolen baby milk to China 
British FBI breaks up eastern European fake passport gang behind London forgery factory 


 

Continue Reading






Articles
UN report reveals huge rise in opioid abuse and cocaine production


 


Published 1 day ago on 26 June 2019


By Guillaume Goudreau 






 



Approximately 35 million people across the world are estimated to suffer from drug use disorders for which they require access to treatment services, according to the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)s World Drug Report 2019.
The study reveals that worldwide use of opioids is rocketing, with the number of people using such drugs in 2017 reaching 53 million, which was 56% up on the previous year.
This was partly thanks to more data being available to survey compilers in countries such as India and Nigeria.
The UN said that opioids such as fentanyl and tramadol were responsible for some two thirds of the 585,000 people who lost their lives as a result of drug use in 2017.
Elsewhere, the report found that estimated worldwide production of cocaine hit an all-time high of 1,976 tons in 2017, an increase of 25% on the previous year.
UNODC said this was mostly driven by increases in manufacture of the drug in Colombia, which produced an estimated 70% of the worlds cocaine.
Colombia experienced a 17% expansion in the area under coca bush cultivation in 2017, and a 31% rise in the amount of cocaine produced.
Overall, interceptions mean that the amount of cocaine available for consumption has increased at a slower rate than has manufacture, the report said.
This suggests that at the global level, law enforcement efforts and international cooperation have likely become more effective with the interception of a larger share of cocaine products than in the past.
The report was launched as the global community came together to mark in the UNs annual International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking.
Held every year since the passing a UN General Assembly resolution in 1987, the event is intended as an expression of participants determination to strengthen action and cooperation to achieve the goal of an international society free of drug abuse.
Designed to raise awareness of the threat illicit drugs pose to communities across the globe, this years event brings together individuals and organisations to highlight the fact that drug abuse is both a criminal justice and healthcare issue.
Under the theme health for justice, justice for health, the 2019 edition of the awareness-raising day will seek to promote effective responses to the global drug problem, and outline how these require criminal justice, health and social services institutions to work hand in hand to provide integrated solutions.
In a statement, UN Secretary General Antnio Guterres commented: I welcome the theme of this International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking  health for justice, justice for health  underlining the importance of a holistic approach involving health, human rights, criminal justice and social service institutions.


Related posts:
Colombian coca cultivation hits record high as cocaine production soars 
Australian police catch two men after they fling cocaine worth A$210 million into sea 
US teens taken to hospital after boy brings cocaine-filled balloons to school 
Icelandic men arrested for attempting to smuggle cocaine worth A$2.5 million into Australia 
Wider range of crime gangs involved in European cocaine trade as production rises in Latin America 


 

Continue Reading






Articles
Singaporean woman facing 20 years in jail for printing homemade bogus banknotes


 


Published 3 days ago on 24 June 2019


By Guillaume Goudreau 






 



A woman in Singapore is facing as many as 20 years behind bars after police arrested her on suspicion of printing her own homemade counterfeit banknotes.
Officers from the Singapore Police Force (SPF) detained the 30-year-old after receiving multiple reports of attempts to pass off fake S$50 ($37) notes at various retail outlets across the Hougang and Tampines housing estates.
After carrying out enquires, investigators from the SPFs Commercial Affairs Department identified the woman as the source of the bogus banknotes and proceeded to arrest her.
Police seized two suspected fake banknotes, a printer, stationery, two handbags, and more than S$1,200 in cash from the woman.
The SDF believes she used the printer to produce the fake S$50 notes, which she then proceeded to spend on several low-value items on at least 10 occasions.
She also stands accused of being involved in a theft that took place back in February.
The woman was charged with counterfeiting banknotes and then using them, offences that can be punished in Singapore with a maximum prison term of 20 years and a large fine.
In a statement, the SDF warned members of the public to remain vigilant for people attempting to pass off counterfeit banknotes, and to call police should they be presented with what they suspect may be fake currency.
Preliminary investigations revealed that the woman is believed to have printed several pieces of S$50 notes with her own printer and used the counterfeit S$50 notes on at least 10 occasions to purchase items of low value, the SDF said.
Two pieces of S$50 notes, which are believed to be counterfeits, a printer, printing paper, stationery, apparel, an EZ-link card, cash amounting to more than S$1,200 and two handbags were seized as case exhibits.
Earlier this month, the SDF said it had received multiple reports of people attempting to spend bogus S$50 and S$100 banknotes at convenience stores, restaurants and retail outlets in a number of locations.
The force said it had arrested and charged three men aged between 25 and 29 in connection with the reports, which it said related to currency that appeared to have been photocopied and lacked security features such as watermarks and security threads.


Related posts:
Indo-Bangla officials call for greater action on cross-border counterfeit currency smuggling 
Three European police forces break up major counterfeit currency rings 
Police in Europe arrest hundreds in operation targeting euro banknote dark web counterfeiters 
Kenyan central bank withdraws high-value notes as part of efforts to fight corruption and money laundering 
US slaps sanctions on Iran Revolutionary Guard counterfeit currency plotters 


 

Continue Reading









NewsletterSign up for our mailing list to receive updates and information on events		


Name:

Email:


Great news, we've signed you up.
Sorry, we weren't able to sign you up. Please check your details, and try again.





Social Widget8620likes1142followers  Latest articles 

China bans meat imports from Canada after discovery of counterfeit pork health certificates


US Coast Guard seizes over 3.5 tonnes of smuggled garlic from traffickers boat in Caribbean


UN report reveals huge rise in opioid abuse and cocaine production


Governments are right to do all they can to prevent Daesh foreign fighters returning home


Singaporean woman facing 20 years in jail for printing homemade bogus banknotes


Press reviewSkulls in the mail: Indonesia foils artifact smuggling9 February 2018Sentencing postponed as cocaine-smuggling sailboat captain undergoes surgery9 February 2018NYC Gun Smuggling Operation Hid Guns In Gym8 February 201816 Year Veteran Seattle Cop Pleads Guilty To Smuggling Large Quantities Of Weed Cross Country28 November 20178 Prison Officers Sacked For Smuggling28 November 2017 Follow us on Twitter
Tweets by @illicit_trade_
  



Trending





  


Articles2 weeks ago

Most EU counterfeiting controlled by organised crime networks, new study reveals






  


Articles4 weeks ago

Dutch prosecutors unveil MDMA-scented perfume to raise awareness of drugs labs






  


Articles3 weeks ago

Hacked medical information now among most valuable data offered on dark web, new study reveals






  


Articles3 weeks ago

South American traffickers held after Spanish police find tonne of cocaine hidden in fake stones






  


Articles3 weeks ago

Rail ticket fraud gang members who cost UK train firms 18 million in lost revenue arrested






  


Articles3 weeks ago

Counterfeit and smuggled cigarettes cost EU member states 10 billion in lost tax revenue last year






  


Articles4 weeks ago

Colombian gang that smuggled plastic pellets impregnated with cocaine broken up by Spanish police






  


Articles2 weeks ago

Australian police smash gang that smuggled methamphetamine from US to Queensland in comic books





















Submit your Articles
About us
Our Authors
Contact
Legal Mentions
 






Copyright  2017 Zox News Theme. Theme by MVP Themes, powered by WordPress.












Shares










































We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok





