










NewsSportsEntertainmentOpinionObituariesE-EditionCarsJobsHomesClassifiedsMember Rewards
































			Peoria,IL  Friday, May 13, 2016
		






















Skip to content



Dispatches from Haiti
from a little country full of solutions

Menu











Critical Situation in Haitian Hospitals (February 13, 2019) 

Flora
Baby Flora is currently recovering from her heart surgery on Monday. She is in a hospital in Port-au-Prince and is reliant on a constant source of electricity. With the city under siege, multiple private hospitals with patients inside are in danger due to lack of supplies. (Haitis public hospitals are not included in the article below. Their conditions and staffing are most always deplorable even on a normal day in Port.)
From Haiti LibreFebruary 13, 2019:
Faced with the deterioration of the socio-economic and political situation in Haiti in recent days, Dr. Franck Geneus President of the Association of Private Hospitals of Haiti (AHPH) expresses his deep concern on behalf of its 28 member hospitals, stressing that its hospitals are starting to face major challenges including : [] shortage of electricity, shortage of fuel, lack of oxygen, depletion of stocks of medicines and stop means of transport and means of communication that have already caused several victims
AHPH note :
[] We can not fail to point out that currently among our members, where we count, important hospitals of the metropolitan area such as the networks of the 4 hospitals of the Development of Health Activities in Haiti (DASH): St Camille Hospital, Medimax, Lambert Health, St. Damien Hospital (our little brothers and sisters), Citymed, SODETH Hospital, Grace Children Hospital, Bernard Mews Hospital, Carrefour Hospital Center, Kings Hospital and the Adventist Hospital of Haiti among others,we already have victims of the indiscriminate violence in the country.
Above all, we are concerned about the risks to public health posed by the continued blockage of all socio-economic activities in the country. All our hospitals are starting to face major challenges; shortage of electricity, shortage of fuel, shortage of oxygen, depletion of stocks of medicines and stop means of transport and means of communication. These challenges directly affect our ability to save lives.
We urgently call on all the protagonists of the crisis to ask them to understand how much the impact is of great importance for the well-being and immediate survival of all strata of the population.
We demand that priority be given to the countrys medical services for access to electricity, fuel and the security of our premises, our personnel, our ambulances and other means of transportation.
We are seeking immediate special protection from the police to allow us to refuel, to evacuate our patients and to operate the system. We ask all the protagonists to find in emergency solutions to put an end to this crisis and this without delay.
We call on all citizens conscience at all levels to allow the continued operation of hospitals in Haiti because it is our survival for all.
Flora
John A. Carroll, MD
www.haitianhearts.org


Tweet


 

Author: John Carroll, MD

			I am a physician from Peoria who gets to live my dream in Haiti.			
				View all posts by John Carroll, MD			





Author  John Carroll, MDPosted on February 13, 2019February 13, 2019 



			3 thoughts on Critical Situation in Haitian Hospitals (February 13, 2019)		





 Debbie says: 



								February 13, 2019 at 8:34 pm							




I feel so helpless.   The stories from Haiti are horrendous.  Praying for Baby Flora, her parents, and Haiti.   I have received three e-mails today from Haitian friends, asking for prayer.  There is so much to fear and uncertainty.  I feel so helpless.   ~Debbie 
Thanks for all you do John,

Reply 





 Christine Lotz says: 



								February 14, 2019 at 5:28 am							




I too am praying for a peaceful resolution soon in Haiti. It is a very scary situation with so much hatred and violence. I understand the frustration but they are hurting their own people and putting the people who are there to help them in a dangerous situation.

Reply 





 Sharilyn says: 



								February 14, 2019 at 9:18 pm							




Praying for baby Flora and her family! Praying that God shows mercy on Haiti 

Reply 



Leave a Reply Cancel reply 
Your email address will not be published.Comment Name 
Email 
Website 
 Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. 

 



Post navigation
Previous Previous post: Catholic Haitian Bishops Pray (The Hour is Serious)Next Next post: Chaos has Consequences




 Recent Posts 

Poor Haitian Encourages Rich Haitian
June 6, 2019


Haitis Walking Dead
April 29, 2019


Cite SoleilApril 8, 2019
April 8, 2019


Doctors on the Border
March 23, 2019


Grandpa Fred
March 7, 2019


Chaos has Consequences
February 22, 2019


Critical Situation in Haitian Hospitals (February 13, 2019)
February 13, 2019


Catholic Haitian Bishops Pray (The Hour is Serious)
February 12, 2019


The State of Haiti in the Words of a Haitian Man
February 12, 2019


Flora (Update February 11, 2019)
February 11, 2019


 



 Recent Posts 

Poor Haitian Encourages Rich Haitian


Haitis Walking Dead


Cite SoleilApril 8, 2019


Doctors on the Border


Grandpa Fred


Meta 
Log in
Entries RSS
Comments RSS
WordPress.org 
 























































About Us




Sign up
for daily e-mail


		Subscribe
	




Site Services



Customer Service


Newspaper in Education


Submit an Ad


Internships


Contact Us




Market Place



Shop


Cars


Homes


Free Classifieds Ad


Classifieds




Community Info



Community Served


Journal Star History


Historic Headlines


Peoria History




Forms



Anniversaries


Births


Engagements


Weddings


100th Birthday


Jobs in Peoria


Pets


Place a Classified Ad


Real Estate


Rentals





Propel Marketing



 Copyright 2006-2016 GateHouse Media, Inc. Some rights reserved 
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted.
	Journal Star  ~ Peoria, IL 61643 ~ Privacy Policy ~ Terms Of Service





Close


Home

News 

Top Stories
Election 2016
Phil Luciano
Police/Fire/Courts
Word on the Street
Random Acts of Kindness
Education
State News



Sports 

Top Stories
Preps
Columns
Rivermen
Peoria Chiefs
Sports Forums
Bradley Hoops
Auto Racing



Entertainment 

Top Stories
Books
Dining Out
More Puzzles
Movies
TV Guide



Opinion 

Top Stories
Our Editorials
Forum Letters
Other Columns
Write a letter



Business


Obituaries


More 


Photos


Videos


Games


Celebrations


All Access signup


Customer service


Photos


Videos


Games


TV Guide


Business


Calendar


Branded Content


Submit your news


Blogs


Shareable







Calendar

Local Directory
Feedback
Terms of use
Privacy Policy
Gatehouse Media Publications





















































