





 






Skip to Main Content











POLITICO













Magazine

The Agenda

Pro


Search



Search















SECTIONS


The Agenda

Magazine

Congress

White House

Election 2020

Election Results 2018

Video

Podcasts




NEWSLETTERS


Playbook

Playbook PM

Huddle

All Newsletters




SERIES


The Deciders

The Agenda: The Future of Prosperity

What Works Next

Women Rule




POLITICO LIVE


Live Home

Upcoming Events

Previous Events

About POLITICO Live



COLUMNS & CARTOONS




Josh Gerstein

Rich Lowry

Jack Shafer

Matt Wuerker

Cartoon Carousel




POLICY


Agriculture

Cybersecurity

Defense

Education

eHealth

Employment & Immigration

Energy & Environment

Finance & Tax

Health Care

Space

Technology

Trade

Transportation




EDITIONS


California

Canada

China

Europe

Florida

New Jersey

New York

Pro




Follow us


Twitter

Instagram

Facebook





My Account

Log InLog Out

































Facebook





Twitter







Email





Comment


 

Print




Continue to article content

































                President Donald Trump arrives in Osaka, Japan, on Thursday for the G-20 Summit, where will meet with the leaders of three of the countries that signed onto the landmark 2015 agreement with Iran. | Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images




white house

Trump wants a new nuclear deal with Iran. No one else does.


                        Trump will meet with world leaders at the G-20 conference to discuss the issue, but theres little support for his Iran strategy.







                    By ANITA KUMAR
06/27/2019 05:17 PM EDT



 Share on Facebook
 Share on Twitter


OSAKA, Japan  President Donald Trump arrived at a gathering of world leaders Thursday searching for support for a new deal to curtail an increasingly aggressive Iran. Hes not likely to find any.
Not only do other countries still support a 2015 nuclear pact, theyre skeptical Trump can strike a better agreement within the time constraints of his fast-approaching reelection campaign, especially after Iran recently proclaimed the end of diplomacy with the U.S. Story Continued Below






The pressure is on. Iran threatened to violate limits set under the 2015 international nuclear agreement, angry at Trump for unilaterally pulling out of the pact and for slapping harsh sanctions on the country. The move threatens to kill the deal for good, leaving the global community without any comprehensive restrictions on Irans nuclear ambitions  let alone its funding of violent proxy groups in the region activities  activities Trump has long said he wants to pursue as part of an expansive agreement.
The Iranians believe a gamble on Democrats winning the White House would be worth the risk of filibustering the Trump administration, said Michael Rubin, a former Defense Department official who now serves as a resident scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. In short, theres a cost to us when there is no partisan solidarity on the foreign policy front.
Trump abruptly canceled a retaliatory strike on Iran last week after it shot down an unmanned U.S. surveillance drone, opting instead for new sanctions against Iranian leaders. The sanctions were designed to pressure Iran to negotiate, but Irans fiery response shows they may make diplomacy more difficult  at least initially.









                    
                        poster=http://v.politico.com/images/1155968404/201906/3928/1155968404_6052203864001_6052198505001-vs.jpg?pubId=1155968404
                    


                true










At the G-20 summit, a gathering of the worlds largest economies, Trump will meet with the leaders of three of the countries that signed onto the landmark 2015 agreement with Iran  Germany, China, Russia  as well as Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, one of Trumps only allies for tougher action against Iran. The deals other signatories, Britain and France, will also have delegations there.
Trump administration officials say the conference is an opportunity for the president to make his pitch in person.
This is a chance for the president to engage with a number of different international leaders, among our closest partners and allies, to obtain their support and to have discussions about how we can encourage Iran to enter into negotiations and to respond to the president's diplomacy with diplomacy, instead of terrorism and nuclear blackmail, said one senior administration official.
But as he discussed a potential new deal over the past two weeks, Trump has intensely focused on Irans possible pursuit of nuclear weapons while also occasionally mentioning the countrys funding of terrorist groups.
I think they want to negotiate, Trump said on Meet the Press Sunday. And I think they want to make a deal. And my deal is nuclear.
The subtle shift in his language has stunned analysts and former officials, who say hes signaling that he wants a deal that closely mirrors the 2015 agreement he spent years attacking. He also said this week that he would negotiate with Iran with no preconditions. 
Trumps recent rhetoric stands in contrast to his more hawkish aides, including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and national security adviser John Bolton, who continue to focus on a list of 12 far-reaching demands for Iran that address nuclear weapons but also ballistic missiles and terrorism. Critics have said that Iran would have to change regimes to meet the demands. 
The U.S. internal views about a deal are split and that means getting to a consensus position for talks would be hard, especially if some in the [U.S. government] believe that the only deal worth having is one in which there is no Iranian nuclear program to speak of, said Richard Nephew, a former sanctions expert at the State Department and National Security Council who helped negotiate the 2105 deal before moving to Columbia Universitys School of International and Public Affairs.
Trump withdrew from the 2015 agreement  which gave Iran sanctions relief in exchange for the country curbing its nuclear program  in May 2018. Even without the U.S., though, the deal has remained intact, albeit in increasingly tenuous fashion. 
Iran has said it could exceed the deals restrictions on stockpiles of low-enriched uranium as soon as Thursday. The country has also threatened to enrich its uranium beyond the limits in the deal, getting it closer to having the capability to make a nuclear weapon.







                            Trumps recent rhetoric stands in contrast to his more hawkish aides, including Secretary of State Mike Pompeo (left) and national security adviser John Bolton (right). | Mark Wilson/Getty Images





Adding tension to the situation were several attacks on oil tankers in the Gulf of Oman that the Trump administration has blamed on Iran.
Before he left Washington, Trump again criticized the agreement, noting some of the deals terms have expiration dates and arguing it doesnt allow observers to visit certain non-nuclear facilities without requesting access and allowing a short delay. 
The deal was a horrible deal, he told reporters at the White House. It was no good. It was no good.  They would have had a clear path to a nuclear weapon. Were not going to allow that to happen. You cant do it.
Still, U.S. allies remain firmly committed to the agreement. French President Emmanuel Macron, for example, would be willing to discuss another deal, but only if the initial pact stays in place, a senior European Union diplomat said. 
This situation is very difficult for us, for the EU, to follow the U.S., the official said. What the countries remaining in the 2015 deal can do is mainly lay the ground for talks between the U.S. and Iran, the official added.
While American allies often echo Washingtons criticisms of Irans destabilizing missile, military and other security policies, they remain doggedly attached to the [Iran] nuclear deal, said Behnam Ben Taleblu, an Iran expert at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, which opposed the 2015 deal and has advised the Trump administration. This creates contradictions in their Iran policy, which impedes American coalition-building on Iran.
Trump has repeatedly shown during 2 years in office that hes willing to strike out on his own on foreign policy if he doesnt get support. But the go-it-alone approach doesnt always deliver the outcome Trump wants. . 
Tom Bossert, who served as Trumps homeland security adviser until last year, said sanctions are the presidents tool of choice. But, he noted, Trumps Iranian sanctions are intended to convey the message that he wants to talk  even if no one else does. Hes imposing sanctions for a broader purpose, Bossert said.
So far, though, it hasnt achieved that purpose. And critics fear it could mean war, even if its inadvertent. Before Trump aborted the retaliatory strike on Iran last week, the Pentagon announced it would dispatch 1,000 more American troops to the Middle East, supplementing 1,000 troops sent to the region last month.
Trump himself wants diplomacy, said Thomas Wright, a geopolitics expert with the center-left Brookings Institution. But it's been sort of bewildering to all of us as to what those talks would actually look like.
Jacopo Barigazzi in Brussels contributed to this report.

 Share on Facebook
 Share on Twitter




This article tagged under:


White House

Iran

Foreign Policy

John Bolton







Missing out on the latest scoops? Sign up for POLITICO Playbook and get the latest news, every morning  in your inbox.






Show Comments
















                                    Most Read












It makes me angry: Tillerson vents frustrations with Kushner 








What Trump Really Just Told the Iranians: Hes Out of Ideas.








Conservatives blast Roberts as turncoat








Everyone hates this place: Border bill tears apart Democratic caucus








Trump wants a new nuclear deal with Iran. No one else does.








McConnell willing to vote on new Dem presidents Supreme Court nominee








Harris stops playing it safe, and 5 other takeaways from a raucous debate








John Roberts Just Called Out the Trump Administration for Lying








Who won the debate?








Did the Democrats Step on a Second Big Land Mine?














Politico Magazine












Biden Dated Himself, Underperformedand Was Eaten Alive



                                            By POLITICO MAGAZINE












Did the Democrats Step on a Second Big Land Mine?



                                            By Jeff Greenfield












John Roberts Just Called Out the Trump Administration for Lying



                                            By Richard Primus












What Trump Really Just Told the Iranians: Hes Out of Ideas.



                                            By Jarrett Blanc








































Jump to sidebar section 



















About Us

Advertising

Breaking News Alerts

Careers

Credit Card Payments

Digital Edition

FAQ

Feedback

Headlines

Photos

POWERJobs

Press

Print Subscriptions

RSS

Site Map



Terms of Service

Privacy Policy



  2019 POLITICO LLC








