










Japanese cuisine

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Jump to navigation
Jump to search


 Osechi, new year special dishes
Part of a series on theCulture of Japan
History
People
Languages
Traditions
Values
Etiquette
Marriage
Funerals
Tea ceremony
Geisha
Onsen/ Sent
Clothing
Games

Mythology and folklore
Mythology
folklore

Cuisine
Festivals
Religion
Buddhism
Christian
New religions
Shinto

Art
Ikebana
Bonsai
Gardens
Pottery and porcelain

Literature
Manga
Poetry

Music and performing arts
Music
Performingarts

Media
Television
Cinema
Mobile phone culture
Anime

Sport
Martial arts

Monuments
World Heritage Sites
Architecture

Symbols
Flag
Coat of arms

Organisations
Museums


 Japan portalvte
Japanese cuisine encompasses the regional and traditional foods of Japan, which have developed through centuries of political, economic, and social changes. The traditional cuisine of Japan (, washoku) is based on rice with miso soup and other dishes; there is an emphasis on seasonal ingredients. Side dishes often consist of fish, pickled vegetables, and vegetables cooked in broth. Seafood is common, often grilled, but also served raw as sashimi or in sushi. Seafood and vegetables are also deep-fried in a light batter, as tempura. Apart from rice, staples include noodles, such as soba and udon. Japan also has many simmered dishes such as fish products in broth called oden, or beef in sukiyaki and nikujaga.
Historically influenced by Chinese cuisine, Japanese cuisine has opened up to influence from Western cuisines in the modern era. Dishes inspired by foreign foodin particular Chinese foodlike ramen and gyza, as well as foods like spaghetti, curry, and hamburgers have become adopted with variants for Japanese tastes and ingredients. Traditionally, the Japanese shunned meat due to Buddhism, but with the modernization of Japan in the 1880s, meat-based dishes such as tonkatsu and yakiniku have become common. Japanese cuisine, particularly sushi, has become popular throughout the world.
In 2011, Japan overtook France to become the country with the most 3-starred Michelin restaurants; as of 2018, the capital Tokyo has maintained the title of the city with the most 3-starred restaurants in the world.[1]

Contents

1 Overview of traditional Japanese cuisine
2 History
3 Seasonality
4 Traditional ingredients

4.1 Meat consumption
4.2 Cooking oil
4.3 Seasonings


5 Dishes
6 Salads
7 Cooking techniques
8 List of dishes
9 Classification

9.1 Kaiseki
9.2 Vegetarian


10 Rice
11 Noodles
12 Sweets
13 Beverages

13.1 Tea
13.2 Beer
13.3 Sake
13.4 Shch
13.5 Whisky
13.6 Wine


14 Regional cuisine
15 Traditional table settings
16 Dining etiquette
17 Dishes for special occasions
18 Imported and adapted foods

18.1 Yshoku  Foreign (Western) food, dishes[5]
18.2 Okonomiyaki
18.3 Tonkatsu
18.4 Curry
18.5 Ramen
18.6 Waf burgers (Japanese Styled-Burgers)
18.7 Italian


19 Outside Japan

19.1 Taiwan
19.2 China
19.3 Thailand
19.4 Indonesia
19.5 Philippines
19.6 Australia
19.7 United Kingdom
19.8 Canada
19.9 United States
19.10 Mexico
19.11 Brazil


20 Cultural heritage
21 Food controversies
22 See also
23 References

23.1 Bibliography


24 Further reading
25 External links



Overview of traditional Japanese cuisine[edit]
 A Japanese meal including tempura, sashimi, and miso soup
Japanese cuisine is based on combining the staple food, which is steamed white rice or gohan (), with one or several okazu or main dishes and side dishes. This may be accompanied by a clear or miso soup and tsukemono (pickles).The phrase ichij-sansai (, one soup, three sides) refers to the makeup of a typical meal served, but has roots in classic kaiseki, honzen, and ysoku cuisine. The term is also used to describe the first course served in standard kaiseki cuisine nowadays.[2]
Rice is served in its own small bowl (chawan), and each main course item is placed on its own small plate (sara) or bowl (hachi) for each individual portion. This is done even in Japanese homes. It contrasts with the Western-style dinners at home, where each individual takes helpings from the large serving dishes of food presented at the middle of the dining table. Japanese style traditionally abhors different flavored dishes touching each other on a single plate, so different dishes are given their own individual plates as mentioned, or are partitioned using leaves, etc. Placing main dishes on top of rice and soiling it is also frowned upon by old-fashioned etiquette.[3]

 Breakfast at a ryokan (Japanese inn), featuring grilled mackerel, Kansai style dashimaki egg, tofu in kaminabe (paper pot)
Though this tradition originated from Classical Chinese dining formalities, especially after the adoption of Buddhism with its tea ceremony, it became most popular and common during and after the Kamakura period, such as the Kaiseki. Japanese cuisine keeps such tradition still, whereas in modern times such practice is in sharp contrast to present day Chinese cuisine, where placing food on rice is standard. However, an exception is the popular donburi.
The small rice bowl or chawan (lit. tea bowl) doubles as a word for the large tea bowls in tea ceremonies. Thus in common speech, the drinking cup is referred to as yunomi-jawan or yunomi for the purpose of distinction. In the olden days, among the nobility, each course of a full-course Japanese meal would be brought on serving napkins called zen (), which were originally platformed trays or small dining tables. In the modern age, faldstool trays or stackup-type legged trays may still be seen used in zashiki, i.e. tatami-mat rooms, for large banquets or at a ryokan type inn. Some restaurants might use the suffix -zen () as a more sophisticated though dated synonym to the more familiar teishoku (), since the latter basically is a term for a combo meal served at a taish-shokud, akin to a diner.[4] Teishoku means a meal of fixed menu, a dinner  prix fixe[5] served at shokud (, dining hall) or ryriten (, restaurant), which is somewhat vague (shokud can mean a diner-type restaurant or a corporate lunch hall); but e.g. Ishikawa, Hiroyoshi () (1991). Taish bunka jiten (snippet). Kbund. p.516. defines it as fare served at teishoku dining hall (, teishoku-shokud), etc., a diner-like establishment.

History[edit]
Main article: History of Japanese cuisine
About 2000 years ago, Japanese cuisine was developed with the influence of China. Rice is a staple in Japanese cuisine. Between 300 and 100 B.C. (Heian Period), Rice was widely used in Japan because of its influences from China. After the introduction of rice, wheat and soybeans were also soon introduced. All three act as a foundation of Japanese cuisine today. During the Kofun period, Buddhism became the official religion of the country. Therefore, eating meat and fish were prohibited. In 675 AD, Emperor Tenmu prohibited the eating of horses, dogs, monkeys, and chickens.[6] In the 8th and 9th century, many emperors have continued to prohibit killing many animals. The number of regulated meats increased significantly, leading to the banning of all mammals except whale, which were categorized as fish.[7] During this period, chopsticks were introduced to Japan. Initially they were only used by nobility.[8] The general population used their hands, as utensils were quite expensive.
From the lack of meat products, Japanese people minimized spice utilization. Spices were rare to find back in the day. Spices like pepper and garlic were only used in a minimalistic amount. In the absence of meat, fish was served as the main protein, as Japan is an island nation. Fish has influenced many iconic Japanese dishes nowadays. In the 9th century, grilled fish and sliced raw fish were widely popular.[9] Japanese people would eat fish in every one of their meals. In traditional Japanese cuisine, oil and fat are usually avoided within the cooking process, because Japanese people were trying to keep a healthy lifestyle.[9]
Preserving fish became a sensation; sushi was originated as means of preserving fish by fermenting it in boiled rice. Fish that are salted and then placed in rice are preserved by lactic acid fermentation, which helps prevent proliferation of the bacteria that bring about putrefaction.[10] During the 15th century, advancement and development helped shorten the fermentation of sushi to about one to two weeks. Sushi thus became a popular snack food and main entre, combining fish with rice. During the Tokugawa period (mid-15th century), sushi without fermentation was introduced. Sushi was still being consumed without fermentation till the end of 18th century, when the hand-rolled and nigri-type sushi was invented.
In 1854, Japan started to gain new trade deals with Western countries when a new Japanese ruling order took over the old emperor. Emperor Meiji, the new ruler, staged a New Years feast designed to embrace the Western world and countries in 1872. The feast contained food that had a lot of European emphasis.[citation needed] For the first time in a thousand years, people were allowed to consume meat in public. After this New Years feast, the general population from Japan started to consume meat again.

Seasonality[edit]
 Kaiseki appetizers on a legged tray
Emphasis is placed on seasonality of food or shun (),[11][12] and dishes are designed to herald the arrival of the four seasons or calendar months.
Seasonality means taking advantage of the fruit of the mountains (, yama no sachi, alt. bounty of the mountains) (e.g. bamboo shoots in spring, chestnuts in the autumn) as well as the fruit of the sea (, umi no sachi, alt. bounty of the sea) as they come into season. Thus the first catch of skipjack tunas (, hatsu-gatsuo) that arrives with the Kuroshio Current has traditionally been greatly prized.[citation needed]
If something becomes available rather earlier than what is usual for the item in question, the first crop or early catch is called hashiri.[13]
Use of tree leaves and branches as decor is also characteristic of Japanese cuisine. Maple leaves are often floated on water to exude coolness or ry (); sprigs of nandina are popularly used. The haran (Aspidistra) and sasa bamboo leaves were often cut into shapes and placed underneath or used as separators.[14]

Traditional ingredients[edit]
Further information: History of Japanese cuisine and List of Japanese ingredients
A characteristic of traditional Japanese food is the sparing use of red meat, oils and fats, and dairy products.[15] Use of ingredients such as soy sauce, miso, and umeboshi tends to result in dishes with high salt content, though there are low-sodium versions of these available.

Meat consumption[edit]
 Yakiniku
As Japan is an island nation surrounded by an ocean, its people have always taken advantage of the abundant seafood supply.[16] It is the opinion of some food scholars that the Japanese diet always relied mainly on grains with vegetables or seaweeds as main, with poultry secondary, and red meat in slight amounts even before the advent of Buddhism which placed an even stronger taboo.[17] The eating of four-legged creatures (, yotsuashi) was spoken of as taboo,[18] unclean or something to be avoided by personal choice through the Edo period.[19] The consumption of whale and terrapin meat were not forbidden under this definition. Despite this, the consumption of red meat did not completely disappear in Japan. Eating wild gameas opposed to domesticated livestockwas tolerated; in particular, trapped hare was counted using the measure word wa (), a term normally reserved for birds.
Vegetable consumption has dwindled while processed foods have become more prominent in Japanese households due to the rising costs of general foodstuffs.[20] Nonetheless, Kyoto vegetables, or Kyoyasai, are rising in popularity and different varieties of Kyoto vegetables are being revived.[21]

Cooking oil[edit]
Generally speaking, traditional Japanese cuisine is prepared with little cooking oil. A major exception is the deep-frying of foods. This cooking method was introduced during the Edo period due to influence from Western (formerly called nanban-ryri ()) and Chinese cuisine,[22] and became commonplace with the availability of cooking oil due to increased productivity.[22] Dishes such as tempura, aburaage, and satsuma age[22] are now part of established traditional Japanese cuisine. Words such as tempura or hiryzu (synonymous with ganmodoki) are said to be of Portuguese origin.
Also, certain homey or rustic sorts of traditional Japanese foods such as kinpira, hijiki, and kiriboshi daikon usually involve stir-frying in oil before stewing in soy sauce. Some standard oszai or obanzai dishes feature stir-fried Japanese greens with either age or chirimen-jako[ja], dried sardines.

Seasonings[edit]
 The use of soy sauce is prevalent in Japanese cuisine
See also Japanese seasonings
Traditional Japanese food is typically seasoned with a combination of dashi, soy sauce, sake and mirin, vinegar, sugar, and salt. These are typically the only seasonings used when grilling or braising an item. A modest number of herbs and spices may be used during cooking as a hint or accent, or as a means of neutralizing fishy or gamy odors present. Examples of such spices include ginger and takanotsume () red pepper.[citation needed] This contrasts conceptually with barbecue or stew, where a blend of seasonings is used before and during cooking.[original research?]
Once a main dish has been cooked, spices such as minced ginger and various pungent herbs may be added as a garnish, called tsuma.[citation needed] With certain milder items, a dollop of wasabi and grated daikon (daikon-oroshi), or Japanese mustard are provided as condiments.[citation needed] A sprig of mitsuba or a piece of yuzu rind floated on soups are called ukimi.[citation needed] Minced shiso leaves and myoga often serve as yakumi, a type of condiment paired with tataki of katsuo or soba.[citation needed] Finally, a dish may be garnished with minced seaweed in the form of crumpled nori or flakes of aonori.[citation needed] Shichimi is also a very popular spice mixture often added to soups, noodles and rice cakes. Shichimi is a chilli based spice mix which contains seven spices: chilli, sansho, orange peel, black sesame, white sesame, hemp, ginger, and nori.[23]

Dishes[edit]
 A typical Japanese dish of grilled fish with accompaniments
Further information: okazu (or szai ()); List of okazu
In the aforementioned stock phrase ichij-sansai (, one soup, three sides), the word sai () has the basic meaning of vegetable, but secondarily means any accompanying dish[24] including fish or meat. It figures in the Japanese word for appetizer, zensai (); main dish, shusai (); or szai () (formal synonym for okazu  considered somewhat of a housewife's term[25]).

Salads[edit]
 Japanese vegetable salads often add seafood
The o-hitashi or hitashi-mono ()[5] is boiled green-leaf vegetables bunched and cut to size, steeped in dashi broth,[26][27] eaten with dashes of soy sauce. Another item is sunomono (, vinegar item), which could be made with wakame seaweed,[28] or be something like a khaku namasu (, red white namasu)[29] made from thin toothpick slices of daikon and carrot. The so-called vinegar that is blended with the ingredient here is often sanbaizu[ja] (, three cupful/spoonful vinegar)[28] which is a blend of vinegar, mirin, and soy sauce. A tosazu[ja] (, Tosa vinegar) adds katsuo dashi to this. Note sparing use of oil, compared with Western salads.
An aemono[ja] ()[dead link]is another group of items, describable as a sort of tossed salad or dressed (though aemono also includes thin strips of squid or fish sashimi (itozukuri) etc. similarly prepared). One types are goma-ae ()[30] where usually vegetables such as green beans are tossed with white or black sesame seeds ground in a suribachi mortar bowl, flavored additionally with sugar and soy sauce. Shira-ae () adds tofu (bean curd) in the mix.[30] An aemono is tossed with vinegar-white miso mix and uses wakegi[30] scallion and baka-gai ( / , a trough shell (Mactra sinensis) as standard.

Cooking techniques[edit]
Different cooking techniques are applied to each of the three okazu; they may be raw (sashimi), grilled, simmered (sometimes called boiled), steamed, deep-fried, vinegared, or dressed.

List of dishes[edit]
Main article: List of Japanese dishes
This article contains embedded lists that may be poorly defined, unverified or indiscriminate. Please help to clean it up to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. Where appropriate, incorporate items into the main body of the article. (January 2013)
 Tempura battered and deep fried seafood and vegetables
 Yakitori grilled chicken
Below are listed some of the most common dishes:

grilled and pan-fried dishes (yakimono ),
stewed/simmered/cooked/boiled dishes (nimono ),
stir-fried dishes (itamemono ),
steamed dishes (mushimono ),
deep-fried dishes (agemono ),
sliced raw fish (sashimi ),
soups (suimono  and shirumono ),
pickled/salted vegetables (tsukemono ),
dishes dressed with various kinds of sauce (aemono ),
vinegared dishes (su-no-mono ),
delicacies, food of delicate flavor (chinmi ).[5]
Classification[edit]
Kaiseki[edit]
 Japanese Kaiseki ryori
Kaiseki, closely associated with tea ceremony (chanoyu), is a high form of hospitality through cuisine. The style is minimalist, extolling the aesthetics of wabi-sabi. Like the tea ceremony, appreciation of the diningware and vessels is part of the experience. In the modern standard form, the first course consists of ichij-sansai (one soup, three dishes), followed by the serving of sake accompanied by dish(es) plated on a square wooden bordered tray of sorts called hassun (). Sometimes another element called shiizakana () is served to complement the sake, for guests who are heavier drinkers.
The tea ceremony kaiseki() is often confounded with another kaiseki-ryri (), which is an outgrowth of meals served at a gathering for haiku and renga composition, which turned into a term for sumptuous sake-accompanied banquet, or shuen ().[2]

Vegetarian[edit]
 Natt, Japanese soybean-based vegetarian food
Strictly vegetarian food is rare since even vegetable dishes are flavored with the ubiquitous dashi stock, usually made with katsuobushi (dried skipjack tuna flakes), and are therefore pescetarian more often than carnivorous. An exception is shjin-ryri (), vegetarian dishes developed by Buddhist monks. However, the advertised shjin-ryri at public eating places includes some non-vegetarian elements. Regarding vegetarianism, fucha-ryri[ja] () was introduced from China by the baku sect (a sub-sect of Zen Buddhism), and which some sources still regard as part of Japanese cuisine.[11] The sect in Japan was founded by the priest Ingen (d. 1673), and is headquartered in Uji, Kyoto. The Japanese name for the common green bean takes after this priest who allegedly introduced the New World crop via China. One aspect of the fucha-ryri practiced at the temple is the wealth of modoki-ryri (, mock foods), one example being mock-eel, made from strained tofu, with nori seaweed used expertly to mimic the black skin.[31] The secret ingredient used is grated gob (burdock) roots.[32][33]
Dr. Masakazu Tada, Honorary Vice-President of the International Vegetarian Union for 25 years from 1960, stated that Japan was vegetarian for a 1,000 years. Although this is not totally true, British journalist J.W. Robertson Scott reported in the 1920s that the society was 90% vegetarian. 5060% of the population ate fish only on festive occasions, probably more because of poverty than for any other reason.

Rice[edit]
Main article: Japanese rice
 Gydon beef rice bowl (right) and niku shoyu ramen beef noodle (left).
Rice has been the staple food for the Japanese historically. Its fundamental importance is evident from the fact that the word for cooked rice, gohan and meshi, also stands for a meal.[34] While rice has a long history of cultivation in Japan, its use as a staple has not been universal. Notably, in northern areas (northern Honsh and Hokkaid), other grain such as wheat were more common into the 19th century.
In most of Japan, rice used to be consumed for almost every meal, and although a 2007 survey showed that 70% of Japanese still eat it once or twice a day, its popularity is now declining. In the 20th century there has been a shift in dietary habits, with an increasing number of people choosing wheat based products (such as bread and noodles) over rice.[35]
Japanese rice is short-grained and becomes sticky when cooked. Most rice is sold as hakumai (, white rice), with the outer portion of the grains (, nuka) polished away. Unpolished brown rice (, genmai) is considered less desirable, but its popularity has been increasing.[35]

Noodles[edit]
Main article: Japanese noodles
 Udon noodles
 Soba noodles
Japanese noodles often substitute for a rice-based meal. Soba (thin, grayish-brown noodles containing buckwheat flour) and udon (thick wheat noodles) are the main traditional noodles, while ramen is a modern import and now very popular. There are also other, less common noodles.
Japanese noodles, such as soba and udon, are eaten as a standalone, and usually not with a side dish, in terms of general custom. It may have toppings, but they are called gu (). The fried battered shrimp tempura sitting in a bowl of tempura-soba would be referred to as the shrimp or the tempura, and not so much be referred to as a topping (gu). The identical toppings, if served as a dish to be eaten with plain white rice could be called okazu, so these terms are context-sensitive.
Hot noodles are usually served in a bowl already steeped in their broth and are called kakesoba or kakeudon. Cold soba arrive unseasoned and heaped atop a zaru or seiro, and are picked up with a chopstick and dunked in their dip sauce. The broth is a soy-dashi-mirin type of mix; the dip is similar but more concentrated (heavier on soy sauce).
In the simple form, yakumi (condiments and spices) such as shichimi, nori, finely chopped scallions, wasabi, etc. are added to the noodles, besides the broth/dip sauce.
Udon may also be eaten in kama-age style, piping hot straight out of the boiling pot, and eaten with plain soy sauce and sometimes with raw egg also.
Japanese noodles are traditionally eaten by bringing the bowl close to the mouth, and sucking in the noodles with the aid of chopsticks. The resulting loud slurping noise is considered normal in Japan, although in the 2010s concerns began to be voiced about the slurping being offensive to others, especially tourists. The word nuuhara (, from nuudoru harasumento, noodle harassment) was coined to describe this.[36]

Sweets[edit]
Main article: Wagashi
See also: List of Japanese desserts and sweets
Traditional Japanese sweets are known as wagashi. Ingredients such as red bean paste and mochi are used. More modern-day tastes includes green tea ice cream, a very popular flavor. Almost all manufacturers produce a version of it. Kakigri is a shaved ice dessert flavored with syrup or condensed milk. It is usually sold and eaten at summer festivals. A dessert very popular among the children in Japan are dorayaki. They are sweet pancakes filled with a sweet red bean paste. They are mostly eaten at room temperature but are also considered very delicious hot.
See also the list of sweets.

Beverages[edit]
Main article: List of Japanese dishes Tea and other drinks
Tea[edit]
Green tea may be served to most Japanese dishes. It is produced in Japan and prepared in various forms such as matcha, the tea used in the Japanese tea ceremony.[37]

Beer[edit]
Main article: Beer in Japan
Beer production started in Japan in the 1860s. The most commonly consumed beers in Japan are pale-colored light lagers, with an alcohol strength of around 5.0% ABV. Lager beers are the most commonly produced beer style in Japan, but beer-like beverages, made with lower levels of malts called Happoshu (, literally, bubbly alcohol) or non-malt Happousei (, literally effervescence) have captured a large part of the market as tax is substantially lower on these products. Beer and its varieties have a market share of almost 2/3 of alcoholic beverages.
Small local microbreweries have also gained increasing popularity since the 1990s, supplying distinct tasting beers in a variety of styles that seek to match the emphasis on craftsmanship, quality, and ingredient provenance often associated with Japanese food.

Sake[edit]
Sake is a brewed rice beverage that typically contains 15%17% alcohol and is made by multiple fermentation of rice. At traditional formal meals, it is considered an equivalent to rice and is not simultaneously taken with other rice-based dishes, although this notion is typically no longer applied to modern, refined, premium (ginjo) sake, which bear little resemblance to the sakes of even 100 years ago. Side dishes for sake are particularly called sakana or otsumami.
Sake is brewed in a highly labor-intensive process more similar to beer production than winemaking, hence, the common description of sake as rice wine is misleading.
Sake is made with, by legal definition, strictly just four ingredients: special rice, water, koji, and special yeast.
As of 2014, Japan has some 1500 registered breweries,[38] which produce thousands of different sakes. Sake characteristics and flavor profiles vary with regionality, ingredients, and the styles (maintained by brewmaster guilds) that brewery leaders want to produce.
Sake flavor profiles lend extremely well to pairing with a wide variety of cuisines, including non-Japanese cuisines.

Shch[edit]
Shch is a distilled spirit that is typically made from barley, sweet potato, buckwheat, or rice. Shch is produced everywhere in Japan, but its production started in Kyushu.[39]

Whisky[edit]
Main article: Japanese whisky
Japanese whisky began commercial production in the early 20th century, and is now extremely popular, primarily consumed in highballs (, haibru). It is produced in the Scottish style, with malt whisky produced since the 1980s, and has since won top international awards, since the 2000s.

Wine[edit]
A domestic wine production exists since the 1860s yet most wine is imported. The total market share of wine on alcoholic beverages is about 3%.[40]

Regional cuisine[edit]
Main article: Japanese regional cuisine
Japanese cuisine offers a vast array of regional specialties known as kydo-ryri (), many of them originating from dishes prepared using traditional recipes with local ingredients. Foods from the Kant region taste very strong. For example, the dashi-based broth for serving udon noodles is heavy on dark soy sauce, similar to soba broth. On the other hand, Kansai region foods are lightly seasoned, with clear udon noodles.[41] made with light soy sauce.[42]

Traditional table settings[edit]
The traditional Japanese table setting has varied considerably over the centuries, depending primarily on the type of table common during a given era. Before the 19th century, small individual box tables (hakozen, ) or flat floor trays were set before each diner. Larger low tables (chabudai, ) that accommodated entire families were gaining popularity by the beginning of the 20th century, but these gave way to Western-style dining tables and chairs by the end of the 20th century.
Traditional Japanese table setting is to place a bowl of rice on your left and to place a bowl of miso soup on your right side at the table. Behind these, each okazu is served on its own individual plate. Based on the standard three okazu formula, behind the rice and soup are three flat plates to hold the three okazu; one to far back left, one at far back right, and one in the center. Pickled vegetables are often served on the side but are not counted as part of the three okazu. Chopsticks are generally placed at the very front of the tray near the diner with pointed ends facing left and supported by a chopstick rest, or hashioki.[42]

Dining etiquette[edit]
Main article: Customs and etiquette in Japanese dining
Many restaurants and homes in Japan are equipped with Western-style chairs and tables. However, traditional Japanese low tables and cushions, usually found on tatami floors, are also very common. Tatami mats, which are made of straw, can be easily damaged and are hard to clean, thus shoes or any type of footwear are always taken off when stepping on tatami floors.[43]
When dining in a traditional tatami room, sitting upright on the floor is common. In a casual setting, men usually sit with their feet crossed and women sit with both legs to one side. Only men are supposed to sit cross-legged. The formal way of sitting for both sexes is a kneeling style known as seiza. To sit in a seiza position, one kneels on the floor with legs folded under the thighs and the buttocks resting on the heels.[43]
When dining out in a restaurant, the customers are guided to their seats by the host. The honored or eldest guest will usually be seated at the center of the table farthest from the entrance. In the home, the most important guest is also seated farthest away from the entrance. If there is a tokonoma, or alcove, in the room, the guest is seated in front of it. The host sits next to or closest to the entrance.[44]
In Japan, it is customary to say itadakimasu (I [humbly] receive) before starting to eat a meal.[45] When saying itadakimasu, both hands are put together in front of the chest or on the lap. Itadakimasu is preceded by complimenting the appearance of food. The Japanese attach as much importance to the aesthetic arrangement of the food as its actual taste. Before touching the food, it is polite to compliment the host on his artistry.[citation needed] It is also a polite custom to wait for the eldest guest at the table to start eating before the other diners start.[citation needed] Another customary and important etiquette is to say go-chis-sama deshita (It was a feast) to the host after the meal and the restaurant staff when leaving.[46]

Dishes for special occasions[edit]
In Japanese tradition some dishes are strongly tied to a festival or event. These dishes include:

Botamochi, a sticky rice dumpling with sweet azuki paste served in spring, while a similar sweet Ohagi is served in autumn.
Chimaki (steamed sweet rice cake): Tango no sekku and Gion Festival.
Hamo (a type of fish, often eel)[47] and smen: Gion Festival.
Osechi: New Year.
Sekihan, is red rice, which is served for any celebratory occasion. It is usually sticky rice cooked with azuki, or red bean, which gives the rice its distinctive red color.[48]
Soba:[49] New Year's Eve. This is called toshi koshi soba (ja:) (literally year crossing soba).
Chirashizushi, Ushiojiru (clear soup of clams) and amazake: Hinamatsuri.
In some regions every 1st and 15th day of the month people eat a mixture of rice and azuki (azuki meshi (), see Sekihan).

 Grilled robata style in the shell to highlight its sweetness with fresh lime
Imported and adapted foods[edit]
Japan has a long history of importing food from other countries, some of which are now part of Japan's most popular cuisine. Ramen is considered an important part to their culinary history, to the extent where in survey of 2,000 Tokyo residents, instant ramen came up many times as a product they thought was an outstanding Japanese invention.[50] Believed to have originated in China, Ramen became popular in Japan after the Second Sino-Japanese war (19371945), when many Chinese students were displaced to Japan.[51]

 Curry is so widely consumed that it can be called a national dish.[52]
Curry is another popular imported dish and is ranked near the top of nearly all Japanese surveys for favorite foods. The average Japanese eats curry at least once a week.[53] The origins of curry, as well many other foreign imports such as pan or bread are linked to the emergence of Yshoku, or western cuisine. Yshoku can be traced as far back as the late Muromachi period (13361573) during a culinary revolution called namban ryori (), which means Southern barbarian cooking, as it is rooted in European cuisine.[51] This cuisine style was first seen in Nagasaki, which served as the point of contact between Europe and Japan at that point in time. Food items such as potatoes, corn, dairy products, as well as the hard candy kompeito (), spread during this time.[51] This cuisine became popular in the Meiji period, which is considered by many historians to be when Japan first opened itself to the outside world. Today, many of these imported items still hold a heavy presence in Japan.

Foods imported from Portugal in the 16th century
Other adapted cuisines in Japan
Yshoku  Foreign (Western) food, dishes[5][edit]
Main article: Yshoku
Japan today abounds with home-grown, loosely Western-style food. Many of these were invented in the wake of the 1868 Meiji Restoration and the end of national seclusion, when the sudden influx of foreign (in particular, Western) culture led to many restaurants serving Western food, known as yshoku (), a shortened form of seiyshoku (, Western cuisine), opening up in cities. Restaurants that serve these foods are called yshokuya (, Western cuisine restaurants).
Many yshoku items from that time have been adapted to a degree that they are now considered Japanese and are an integral part of any Japanese family menu. Many are served alongside rice and miso soup, and eaten with chopsticks. Yet, due to their origins these are still categorized as yshoku as opposed to the more traditional washoku (, Japanese cuisine).

Okonomiyaki[edit]
Main article: Okonomiyaki
 Japanese pancake, Okonomiyaki
Okonomiyaki is a savoury pancake containing a variety of ingredients.

Tonkatsu[edit]
 Tonkatsu pork cutlet
Main article: Tonkatsu
Tonkatsu is a breaded, deep-fried pork cutlet.

Curry[edit]
Main article: Japanese curry
Curry was introduced to Japan by the British in the Meiji period. Japanese versions of curry can be found in foods such as curry udon, curry bread, and katsukar, tonkatsu served with curry. They very commonly come with rice beside the curry on the dish. This can be eaten during dinner most of the time.

Ramen[edit]
 Ramen noodles
Chinese-style wheat noodles served in a meat stock broth known as ramen have become extremely popular over the last century.[54][citation needed]

Waf burgers (Japanese Styled-Burgers)[edit]
Hamburger chains include McDonald's, Burger King, First Kitchen, Lotteria and MOS Burger. Many chains developed uniquely Japanese versions of American fast food such as the teriyaki burger, kinpira (saut) rice burger, fried shrimp burgers, and green tea milkshakes.

Italian[edit]
High-class Japanese chefs have preserved many Italian seafood dishes that are forgotten in other countries. These include pasta with prawns, lobster (a specialty known in Italy as pasta all'aragosta), crab (an Italian specialty; in Japan it is served with a different species of crab), and pasta with sea urchin sauce (sea urchin pasta being a specialty of the Puglia region).[55]

Outside Japan[edit]
 California roll, a fusion makizushi created outside of Japan.
Many countries have imported portions of Japanese cuisine. Some may adhere to the traditional preparations of the cuisines, but in some cultures the dishes have been adapted to fit the palate of the local populace. In 1970s sushi travelled from Japan to Canada and the United States, it was modified to suit the American palate, and re-entered the Japanese market as American Sushi.[56] An example of this phenomenon is the California roll, which was created in North America in the 1970s, rose in popularity across the United States through the 1980s, and thus sparked Japanese food's more precisely, sushi's global popularity.
In 2014, Japanese Restaurant Organization has selected potential countries where Japanese food is becoming increasingly popular, and conducted research concerning the Japanese restaurants abroad. These key nations or region are Taiwan, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Thailand and Indonesia.[57] This was meant as an effort to promote Japanese cuisine and to expand the market of Japanese ingredients, products and foodstuffs. Numbers of Japanese foodstuff and seasoning brands such as Ajinomoto, Kikkoman, Nissin and Kewpie mayonnaise, are establishing production base in other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia.

Taiwan[edit]
Japan and Taiwan have shared close historical and cultural relations. Taiwan has adapted many Japanese food items. Tianbula, a Taiwanese version of tempura, only barely resembles the original, being more a variant of oden. Taiwanese Tianbula is prepared by boiling fish paste, dicing it into small pieces, and then coating it lightly with sweet chili sauce.[58] Taiwanese versions of oden are known locally as olen.

China[edit]
Ramen has been exported back to China in recent years where it is known as ri shi la mian (, Japanese lamian).[citation needed] Japanese ramen chains serve ramen alongside distinctly Japanese dishes such as tempura and yakitori.[citation needed] Skewered versions of oden is a common convenience store item in Shanghai where it is known as guandongzhu ().

Thailand[edit]
In Southeast Asia, Thailand is the largest market for Japanese food. This is partly because Thailand is a popular tourist destination, having large numbers of Japanese expatriats, as well as local population has developed a taste for authentic Japanese cuisine. According to the Organisation that Promote Japanese Restaurants Abroad (JRO), the number of Japanese restaurants in Thailand jumped about 2.2-fold from 2007's figures to 1,676 in June 2012. In Bangkok, Japanese restaurants accounts for 8.3 percent of all restaurants, following those that serve Thai.[59] Numbers of Japanese chain restaurants has established their business in Thailand, such as Yoshinoya gydon restaurant chain, Gyu-Kaku yakiniku restaurant chain and Kourakuen ramen restaurant chain.

Indonesia[edit]
 Chicken teriyaki bento set,[60] including salmon sashimi, gyoza, salad and miso soup, served in a Japanese restaurant in Jakarta.
In the ASEAN region, Indonesia is the second largest market for Japanese food, after Thailand. Japanese cuisine has been increasingly popular as the growth of the Indonesian middle-class expecting higher quality foods.[57] This is also contributed to the fact that Indonesia has large numbers of Japanese expatriates. The main concern is the halal issue. As a Muslim majority country, Indonesians expected that Japanese food served there are halal according to Islamic dietary law, which means no pork and alcohol allowed. Japanese restaurants in Indonesia often offer a set menu which include rice served with an array of Japanese favourites in a single setting. A set menu might include a choice of yakiniku or sukiyaki, including a sample of sushi, tempura, gyoza and miso soup. Quite authentic Japanese style izakaya and ramen shops can be found in Little Tokyo (Melawai) area in Blok M, South Jakarta, serving both Japanese expats and local clienteles.[61] Today, Japanese restaurants can be found in most of Indonesian major cities, with high concentration in Greater Jakarta area, Bandung, Surabaya and Bali.
In some cases, Japanese cuisine in Indonesia is often slanted to suit Indonesian taste. Hoka Hoka Bento in particular is an Indonesian-owned Japanese fast food restaurant chain that cater to the Indonesian clientele. As a result the foods served there have been adapted to suit Indonesians' taste. Examples of the change include stronger flavours compared to the authentic subtle Japanese taste, the preference for fried food, as well as the addition of sambal to cater to the Indonesians' preference for hot and spicy food.

 Okonomiyaki and takoyaki served in a festival of 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta
Japanese food popularity also had penetrated street food culture, as modest Warjep or Warung Jepang (Japanese food stall) offer Japanese food such as tempura, okonomiyaki and takoyaki, at very moderately low prices.[62] Today, okonomiyaki and takoyaki are popular street fare in Jakarta and other Indonesian cities.[63][64] This is also pushed further by the Japanese convenience stores operating in Indonesia, such as 7-Eleven and Lawson offering Japanese favourites such as oden, chicken katsu (deep-fried chicken cutlet), chicken teriyaki and onigiri.[65]
Some chefs in Indonesian sushi establishment has created a Japanese-Indonesian fusion cuisine, such as krakatau roll, gado-gado roll, rendang roll and gulai ramen.[66] The idea of fusion cuisine between spicy Indonesian Padang and Japanese cuisine was thought because both cuisine traditions are well-liked by Indonesians.[67] Nevertheless, some of these Japanese eating establishments might strive to serve authentic Japanese cuisine abroad.[68] Numbers of Japanese chain restaurants has established their business in Indonesia, such as Yoshinoya gydon restaurant chain,[69] Gyu-Kaku yakiniku restaurant chain and Ajisen Ramen restaurant chain.

Philippines[edit]
In the Philippines, Japanese cuisine is also popular among the local population.[70] The Philippines have been exposed to the influences from the Japanese, Indian and Chinese.[71] The cities of Davao and Metro Manila probably have the most Japanese influence in the country.[72][73] The popular dining spots for Japanese nationals are located in Makati City, which is called as Little Tokyo, a small area filled with restaurants specializing in different types of Japanese food. Some of the best Japanese no-frills restaurants in the Philippines can be found in Makati's Little Tokyo area.[74]

Australia[edit]
Japanese cuisine is very popular in Australia, and Australians are becoming increasingly familiar with traditional Japanese foods.[75] Restaurants serving Japanese cuisine feature prominently in popular rankings, including Gourmet Traveller and The Good Food Guide.[76]
Sushi in particular has been described as being as popular as sandwiches, particularly in large cities like Melbourne, Sydney, or Brisbane.[77] As such, sushi bars are a mainstay in shopping centre food courts, and are extremely common in cities and towns all over the country.[77]

United Kingdom[edit]
 A branch of Kokoro in Sutton High Street, Sutton, Greater London
Japanese food restaurant chains in the UK include Wagamama, YO! Sushi, Nudo Sushi Box, Wasabi and Kokoro.

Canada[edit]
In Canada, Japanese cuisine has become quite popular. Sushi, sashimi, and instant ramen are highly popular at opposite ends of the income scale, with instant ramen being a common low-budget meal. Sushi and sashimi takeout began in Vancouver and Toronto, and is now common throughout Canada. The largest supermarket chains all carry basic sushi and sashimi, and Japanese ingredients and instant ramen are readily available in most supermarkets. Most mid-sized mall food courts feature fast-food teppan cooking. Izakaya restaurants have surged in popularity.

United States[edit]
The Canada-born popular makizushi California roll has been influential in sushi's global popularity;[78] as of 2015[update] the country has about 4,200 sushi restaurants.[79] It is one of the most popular styles of sushi in the US market. Japanese cuisine is an integral part of food culture in Hawaii as well as in other parts of the United States. Popular items are sushi, sashimi, and teriyaki. Kamaboko, known locally as fish cake, is a staple of saimin, a noodle soup. Sushi, long regarded as quite exotic in the west until the 1970s, has become a popular health food in parts of North America, Western Europe and Asia.
Two of the first Japanese restaurants in the United States were Saito and Nippon.  Restaurants such as these popularized dishes such as sukiyaki and tempura, while Nippon was the first restaurant in Manhattan to have a dedicated sushi bar.[80]  Nippon was also one of the first Japanese restaurants in the U.S. to grow and process their own soba[81] and responsible for creation of the now standard beef negimayaki dish.[82]

In the U.S., the phrase hibachi-style is sometimes used to refer to what is really teppanyaki iron hot plate cooking, featuring steak, chicken, or shrimp and vegetables cooked in front of the customer on a teppanyaki grill (teppan) by a personal chef who turns cooking into performance art, twirling and juggling cutting knives like batons.[83] This style of cooking was made popular in the U.S. when Rocky Aoki founded his popular restaurant chain Benihana in 1964. In Japan this type of cooking is thought to be American food, but in the U.S. it is thought to be Japanese. Aoki though this would go over better in the U.S. than traditional Japanese cuisine because he felt that Americans enjoyed eating in exotic surroundings, but are deeply mistrustful of exotic foods.[84]

Mexico[edit]
In Mexico, certain Japanese restaurants have created what is known as sushi Mexicano, in which spicy sauces and ingredients accompany the dish or are integrated in sushi rolls. The habanero and serrano chiles have become nearly standard and are referred to as chiles toreados, as they are fried, diced and tossed over a dish upon request. A popular sushi topping, Tampico, is made by blending chiles, mayonnaise, and imitation crab. Cream cheese and avocado are often added to makizushi.[citation needed]

Brazil[edit]
In Brazil, Japanese food is widespread due to the large Japanese-Brazilian population living in the country, which represents the largest Japanese community living outside Japan. Over the past years, many restaurant chains such as Koni Store[85] have opened, selling typical dishes such as the popular temaki. Yakisoba, which is readily available in all supermarkets, and often included in non-Japanese restaurant menus.[citation needed]

Cultural heritage[edit]
In February 2012, the Agency for Cultural Affairs recommended that 'Washoku: Traditional Dietary Cultures of the Japanese' be added to the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.[86] On December 4, 2013, Washoku, traditional dietary cultures  [sic] of the Japanese, notably for the celebration of New Year was added to UNESCO's Intangible Cultural Heritage, bringing the number of Japanese assets listed on UNESCO's Intangible Cultural Heritage list to 22.[87][88]

Food controversies[edit]
 Whale meat sashimi, one of the most controversial Japanese dishes
Japanese obsession with fresh food  which manifested in certain aspect of Japanese cuisine traditions of eating live seafood, which includes Ikizukuri and Odori ebi, has gained criticism  condemned as a form of animal cruelty.[89]
Japanese cuisine is heavily dependent on seafood products. Compared to other developed countries, the Japanese eat more fish than any of them, consuming about 27 kilograms of seafood per capita annually. An aspect of environmental concern is Japanese appetite for seafood, which might lead to depletion of natural ocean resources through overfishing. For example, Japan consumes 80% of the global supply of blue fin tuna, a popularly sought sushi and sashimi ingredient, which might lead to its extinction due to commercial overfishing.[90] Another environmental concern is commercial whaling and the consumption of whale meat, since Japan is the world's largest market of whale meat.[91][92]

See also[edit]

Japan portal
Food portal

Bento
Culture of Japan
Cuisine of Okinawa
Fake food in Japan
Honzen-ryri
Japanese New Year
Kaiseki
List of Japanese condiments
List of Japanese cooking utensils
List of Japanese dishes
List of Japanese desserts and sweets
List of Japanese soups and stews
List of Japanese ingredients
List of Japanese restaurants

References[edit]


^ Demetriou, Danielle (October 19, 2011). Japan relishes status as country with most three-starred Michelin restaurants. ISSN0307-1235. Retrieved January 15, 2019.

^ a b  (2005). . PHP. ISBN978-4-569-64432-5., p.158, explains that in the tea kaiseki, the

^ Kondo, Tamami() (2010). :  [Nihon no saho to shikitari: shiki no gyoji to kankon sosai, sono yurai to joshiki] (preview). PHP. ISBN978-4-569-77764-1., p.185

^ Shinmura 1976

^ a b c d Kenkyusha's New Japanese-English Dictionary, ISBN4-7674-2015-6

^ Rath, E. C. (2013). Reevaluating Riky: Kaisekiand the Origins of Japanese Cuisine. The Journal of Japanese Studies,39(1), 6796. doi:10.1353/jjs.2013.0022

^ Stevens, C. S. (2011). Touch: Encounters with Japanese Popular Culture. Japanese Studies,31(1), 110. doi:10.1080/10371397.2011.559898

^ Bestor, T. C. (2015). Cuisine and identity in contemporary Japan. Routledge Handbook of Japanese Culture and Society. doi:10.4324/9780203818459.ch22

^ a b Ashkenazi, M. (2013). The Essence of Japanese Cuisine. The History and Culture of Japanese Food. doi:10.4324/9781315027487

^ Jung, S. (2019). The Japanese Culinary Academy teaches you the fundamentals of food from the Land of the Rising Sun

^ a b Heibonsha 1969

^ A Day in the Life: Seasonal Foods Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine, The Japan Forum Newsletter No.September 14, 1999.

^ Hepburn 1888 dictionary hashiri: The first fruits, or first caught fish of the season

^ Gordenker, Alice (January 15, 2008). Bento grass. The Japan Times Online. ISSN0447-5763. Retrieved June 5, 2019.

^ Ehara, Ayako (1999). School Meals and Japan's Changing Diet (snippet). Japan echo. Japan Echo Inc. 26., quote: Relatively alien to the traditional Japanese diet were meat, oil and fats, and dairy products..

^ Heibonsha 1964, vol. 17, p.355, Nihon ryori, section by Toshio Yanagihara

^ Heibonsha 1964, vol. 17, p.356, Nihon ryori, section by Motoyama: ..

^ Cawthorn 1997, p.7

^ Morimatsu, Yoshiaki; Hinonishi, Sukenori; Sakamoto, Taro (1957). . .,

^ Pulvers, Roger (March 6, 2011). Japanese families' nutritional values pay dearly for 'progress'. The Japan Times. Archived from the original on August 1, 2012. Retrieved March 22, 2011.

^ Ochiai, H. (November 25, 2014). Is it a potato or a prawn?: Kyoto farmers make a name selling strangely shaped vegetables, The Japan News by the Yomiuri Shimbun, the-japan-news.com/news/article/0001713547

^ a b c Fukuta, Ajio () (1999). Nihon minzoku daijiten(). 1. Yoshikawa Kobunkan ()., p.16 ,,,

^ Today, What Way. Food in Japan is not just about Sushi  Japanese Food Adventure. What Way Today. Retrieved April 20, 2016.

^ Shinmura 1976 Kjien

^ Shinmura 1976 Kjien under okazu says formerly a ladies' term ()

^ Andoh 2012, p.20 spinach steeped in broth; p.63 (spinach) blanched and then marinated in smoky broth.

^ Shimbo 2000, p.237: Ohitashi literally means 'dipped item,' although the dressing is actually poured over the leaf vegetables.

^ a b Shimbo 2000, p.147 wakame and cucumber in sanbaizu dressing (sunomono); p.74 sanbaizu recipe

^ Tsuji, Fisher & Reichl 2006, p.429.

^ a b c Tsuji, Fisher & Reichl 2006, pp.241253

^ . . Asahi Shimbun. September 3, 2011. Retrieved May 2012. Check date values in: |accessdate= (help)

^ Nagatomo, Akiko () (September 3, 2011). . . Industry and Tourism Bureau, City of Kyoto.

^ Andoh 2010, p.188- gives a recipe.

^ Kiple & Ornelas 2001, p. 1176

^ a b Kobayashi, Kazuhiko; Smil, Vaclav (2012). Japan's Dietary Transition and Its Impacts. MA, USA: Massachusetts Institute of Technology. p.18. ISBN978-0-262-01782-4.

^ Ashcraft, Brian (May 6, 2019). Japan's Noodle Slurping Noises Disturb Tourists, It Seems. Kotaku. Retrieved May 6, 2019.

^ Hosking, Richard (1995). A Dictionary of Japanese Food - Ingredients and Culture. Tuttle. p.30. ISBN0-8048-2042-2.

^ Archived copy. Archived from the original on November 6, 2014. Retrieved November 14, 2014.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link)

^ What is Shochu?. Retrieved December 31, 2006.

^ Japanese drinking.

^ Jo, Andrew. Japanese food includes dishes such as delicious Soba and Udon noodles. Retrieved December 15, 2015.

^ a b Introduction to Japanese Food, retrieved January 8, 2010

^ a b Japan Etiquette. Etiquette Scholar. Yellowstone Publishing, LLC. Retrieved January 16, 2017.

^ Lininger, Mike. Japan Etiquette | International Dining Etiquette | Etiquette Scholar. Etiquette Scholar. Retrieved October 3, 2018.

^ Ogura, Tomoko.; . (2008). Itadakimasu o wasureta Nihonjin: tabekata ga migaku hinsei (Shohan ed.). Tky: Asuk Media Wkusu. p.68. ISBN9784048672870. OCLC244300317.

^  in English - Japanese-English Dictionary. Glosbe. Retrieved June 2, 2019.

^ Davidson, Alan (2003). Seafood of South-East Asia: a comprehensive guide with recipes. Ten Speed Press. p.34. ISBN1-58008-452-4.

^ Tsuji, Shizuo; M.F.K. Fisher (2007). Japanese Cooking: A Simple Art (25 ed.). Kodansha International. pp.280281. ISBN978-4-7700-3049-8.

^ Mente, Boye Lafayette De (2007). Dining Guide to Japan: Find the Right Restaurant, Order the Right Dish, and. Tuttle Publishing. p.70. ISBN4-8053-0875-3.

^ Ayao, Okumura. Japan's Ramen Romance. Japan Quarterly 48.3 (2001): 66. ProQuest Asian Business & Reference

^ a b c Seligman, Lucy. The History of Japanese Cuisine. Japan Quarterly 41.2 (1994): 165. PAO Liberal Arts Collection 1.

^  (in Japanese).  . Retrieved February 1, 2016.

^ Morieda Takashi. The Unlikely Love Affair with Curry and Rice. Japan Quarterly 47.2 (2000): 66. ProQuest Asian Business & Reference.

^ Ayao, Okumura (July  September 2001). Japan's Ramen romance. Japan Quarterly; Tokyo. 48:3: 6676.

^ The Globalization of Asian Cuisines: Transnational Networks and Culinary Contact Zones.

^ Iris-Aya Laemmerhirt (2014). Embracing Differences: Transnational Cultural Flows between Japan and the United States, Volume 36 of Edition Kulturwissenschaft. transcript Verlag. pp.102103. ISBN978-3-8394-2600-5.

^ a b Azi Fitriyanti (January 25, 2014). Japanese Cuisine in Indonesia Focuses on Taste, Menus Food Safety. Antara News. Retrieved May 5, 2014.

^ Taiwan Night Market Snacks. dfll.nchu.edu.tw. Retrieved September 17, 2018.

^ Burgeoning growth of Japanese cuisine in Thailand. The Nation. September 24, 2012.

^ Chicken Teriyaki bento set. Ichiban Sushi.

^ 7 Best Japanese Resto in Jakarta's Little Tokyo (Melawai). Wanderbites.

^ Japanese Food Favorit ala Cafe (in Indonesian). Gramedia Pustaka Utama. ISBN9789792227284.

^ Media, Kompas Cyber (February 10, 2011). Okonomiyaki Merambah Kaki Lima - Kompas.com. KOMPAS.com (in Indonesian). Retrieved September 15, 2018.

^ 10 Japanese Street Food yang Bisa Kamu Temukan di Jakarta. Qraved Journal. Retrieved September 19, 2018.

^ Mustinda, Lusiana. Yang Hangat! di 4 Tempat Ini Ada Oden Enak dengan Harga Terjangkau. detikfood (in Indonesian). Retrieved September 19, 2018.

^ New: Suntiang, When Padang Marries Japanese Food. Culinary Bonanza. February 6, 2014. Retrieved May 5, 2014.

^ Resty Woro Yuniar (February 21, 2014). Food Fridays: When Rendang Said 'I Do' to Sushi. The Wall Street Journal.

^ I. Christianto (November 30, 2009). Enjoying internationally popular Japanese food. The Jakarta Post. Retrieved May 5, 2014.

^ Yoshinoya Indonesia. Archived from the original on May 1, 2018. Retrieved December 17, 2018.

^ Cheryl M. Arcibal (July 8, 2013). Latest Japanese resto in town wants to conquer Pinoy bellies with pork and ramen | Food. Philstar.com. Retrieved March 3, 2014.

^ [1] Archived July 1, 2012, at the Wayback Machine

^ Japanese Diasporas: Unsung Pasts, Conflicting Presents and Uncertain Futures  Google Books. Books.google.com. Retrieved March 3, 2014.

^ [2]

^ Tiu, Cheryl (December 31, 2012). Best of Manila | CNN Travel. Travel.cnn.com. Retrieved March 3, 2014.

^ Asian Food and Australia's Changing Palate. Peril Magazine. Retrieved March 26, 2015.

^ Top 10 Restaurants of Australia. Top 10 Restaurants. Retrieved March 26, 2015.

^ a b Japanese Culture in Australia. Australian Good Food Guide. Retrieved March 26, 2015.

^ Renton, Alex (February 26, 2006). How Sushi ate the World. The Guardian. Retrieved August 20, 2006.

^ Passy, Charles (August 26, 2015). Meet the Pilot Who Doubles as Block Island's Chinese-Food Delivery Guy. The Wall Street Journal. pp.A1. Retrieved August 26, 2015.

^ Claiborne, Craig. Restaurants on Review; Variety of Japanese Dishes Offered, But Raw Fish Is Specialty on Menu. Retrieved August 3, 2018.

^ The chef, obsessed: Nobuyoshi Kuraoka established his own local buckwheat farm to achieve the perfect soba noodle. Politico PRO. Retrieved August 3, 2018.

^ Fabricant, Florence. ADAPTING AMERICAN FOODS TO JAPANESE CUISINE. Retrieved August 3, 2018.

^ American-style peace redefines Japanese palate. Japan Times. August 30, 2001.

^ Why Hibachi Is Complicated (Audio Podcast with Notes). Sporkful. March 11, 2019.

^ Kugel, Seth (November 9, 2008). Rio de Janeiro: Koni Stores. The New York Times. Retrieved May 5, 2010.

^ Japanese cuisine to be nominated for UNESCO world heritage list. Mainichi Daily News. February 18, 2012. Archived from the original on February 19, 2012. Retrieved February 19, 2012.

^ UNESCO Culture Sector  Intangible Heritage  2003 Convention:. Unesco.org. Retrieved on May 24, 2014.

^ Japanese cuisine added to UNESCO intangible heritage list. Mainichi Daily News. December 5, 2013. Archived from the original on December 10, 2013. Retrieved December 5, 2013.

^ Russell, Jennifer (October 15, 2015). At least it's fresh! Diners scream in shock when their half-eaten sashimi comes back to life and JUMPS off the plate. Mail Online.

^ McCurry, Justin (November 10, 2016). Trouble at Tsukiji: world's biggest fish market caught in controversy. The Guardian.

^ Whale meat trade continues in East Asia. WWF.

^ Whaling in Japan. Whale and Dolphin Conservation.


Bibliography[edit]
Hara, Reiko (2006) International Cuisine: Japan ISBN0-340-90577-8.
Further reading[edit]

(language dictionaries)
Hepburn, James Curtis (1888). A Japanese-English and English-Japanese Dictionary. Tokyo: Z.P. Maruya & Company. (4th edition), 962pp
Shinmura, Izuru (1976). (Kjien). Iwanami.. Japanese dictionary.
Kindaichi, Kyosuke() (1997), (Shin Meikai Kokugo Jiten)(5th ed.), , ISBN978-4-385-13099-6
Kindaichi, Kyosuke() (1974), (Shin Meikai Kokugo Jiten)(2nd ed.), 
(encyclopedias and topical dictionaries)
Heibonsha (1969) [1968]. (Sekai hyakka jiten). (world encyclopedia, in Japanese).
Morimoto, Yoshiaki(); Hinonishi, Sukenori(); Sakamoto, Taro() (1958), (Fzoku Jiten) (snippet), (Tokyodo shuppan)
Kiple, Kenneth F.; Ornelas, Kriemhild (2000). The Cambridge World History of Food. 2. Cambridge, UK: ColuCambridge University Press. ISBN0-521-40216-6. Archived from the original on May 4, 2012.
(Cuisine titles)
Cwiertka, Katarzyna Joanna (2006), Modern Japanese Cuisine: Food, Power And National Identity (preview), Reaktion Books, ISBN978-1-86189-298-0
Rath, Eric C. (2010), Food and Fantasy in Early Modern Japan (preview), University of California Press, ISBN978-0-520-26227-0
(cookbooks)
Andoh, Elizabeth (2010), Kansha: Celebrating Japan's Vegan and Vegetarian Traditions (preview), Random House Digital, Inc., ISBN978-1-58008-955-5
Andoh, Elizabeth (2012), Washoku: Recipes from the Japanese Home Kitchen (preview), Random House Digital, Inc., ISBN978-0-307-81355-8
Shimbo, Hiroko (2000), The Japanese Kitchen: 250 Recipes in a Traditional Spirit (preview), Harvard Common Press, ISBN978-1-55832-177-9
Tsuji, Shizuo; Fisher, M.F.K.; Reichl, Ruth (2006), (Fzoku Jiten) (preview), Kodansha International, ISBN978-4-7700-3049-8
(monograms)
Cawthorn, M. W. (1997). Meat consumption from stranded whales and marine mammals in New Zealand: Public health and other issues (PDF). Conservation Advisory Science Notes. Wellington, New Zealand: Department of Conservation. No. 164. ISSN1171-9834.[permanent dead link]
(guides)
Hamano, Fumiko() (2010), Nihon de kuras () (preview), Jt b publishing, ISBN978-4-533-07976-4 (illusr. with diagrams)

External links[edit]



Wikibooks Cookbook has a recipe/module on

 Cuisine of Japan





Wikimedia Commons has media related to Cuisine of Japan.




Wikivoyage has travel information for Japanese cuisine.




Wikivoyage has a travel guide for Cuisine of Japan.

Japanese cuisine at Curlie

vteJapanarticlesHistoryChronology
Prehistory
Paleolithic
Ancient history
Jmon
Yayoi
Kofun
Antiquity history
Asuka
Nara
Heian
Post-antiquity history
Kamakura
Muromachi
AzuchiMomoyama
Edo
Modern history
Bakumatsu
Empire of Japan
Meiji
Taish
Shwa
Post-war
Post-occupation
Heisei
Reiwa
By topic
Economic
Education
Military
Naval
Imperial Army
Imperial Navy
Overseas actions
Geography
Addresses
Archipelago
Cities
Districts
Earthquakes
Environment
Extreme points
Islands
Lakes
Prefectures
Regions
Rivers
Towns
Villages
World Heritage Sites
Politics
Constitution
Elections
Emperor
Foreign relations
Human rights
LGBT
Judiciary
Law
Law enforcement
National Diet
Political parties
Self-Defense Forces
Government
Cabinet
Fiscal policy
Foreign policy
Ministries
Prime Minister
Deputy Prime Minister
Economy
Agriculture, forestry, fishing
Central bank
Labor
Manufacturing
Energy
Science and technology
Telecommunications
Transport
Yen
Society
Crime
Demographics
Education
Etiquette
Gambling
Housing
Languages
Religion
Sexuality
Smoking
Women
Culture
Aesthetics
Anime/ Manga
Architecture
Art
Bonsai
Cinema
Cuisine
Festivals
Folklore
Gardens
Geisha
Games
Ikebana
Kawaii
Literature
Martial arts
Media
Music
Mythology
Names
Onsen/ Sent
Sport
Tea ceremony
Television
Theatre

 Japan portal
 Category
 Outline

vteAsian cuisineSovereign states
Afghanistan
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Brunei
Burma (Myanmar)
Cambodia
China
East Timor (Timor-Leste)
Egypt
Georgia
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Israel
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
North Korea
South Korea
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Laos
Lebanon
Malaysia
Maldives
Mongolia
Nepal
Oman
Pakistan
Palestine
Philippines
Qatar
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Sri Lanka
Syria
Tajikistan
Thailand
Turkey
Turkmenistan
United Arab Emirates
Uzbekistan
Vietnam
Yemen
States with limitedrecognition
Abkhazia
Nagorno-Karabakh
Northern Cyprus
South Ossetia
Taiwan
Dependencies andother territories
British Indian Ocean Territory
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Hong Kong
Macau

vteCuisinesRegional
African
North
West
list
Americas
North
South
list
Asian
Central
Indian subcontinent
list
Caribbean
Caucasian
European
Central
Eastern
list
Global
Latin American
Mediterranean
Middle Eastern
Levantine
Oceanic
National
Afghan
Albanian
Algerian
Angolan
Argentine
Armenian
Australian
Austrian
Azerbaijani
Bahraini
Bangladeshi
Barbadian
Belarusian
Belgian
Belizean
Beninese
Bhutanese
Bolivian
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazilian
British
Cornish
English
Northern Irish
Scottish
Welsh
Bruneian
Bulgarian
Burkinab
Burmese
Burundian
Cambodian
Cameroonian
Canadian
Canadian Chinese
Quebec
Central African Republic
Chadian
Chilean
Chinese
Tibetan
Colombian
Congolese
Croatian
Cuban
Cypriot
Czech
Danish
Faroese
Greenlandic
Djiboutian
Dominican
Dominican Republic
Dutch
East Timorese
Ecuadorian
Egyptian
Emirati
Equatorial Guinean
Eritrean
Estonian
Ethiopian
Fijian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Occitania
Gabonese
Gambian
Georgian
German
Ghanaian
Greek
Greek Macedonian
Guatemalan
Guianan
Guinea-Bissauan
Guinean
Haitian
Honduran
Hong Kong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Indian
Andhra Pradesh
Arunachal Pradesh
Assam
Bihar
Goa
Gujarat
Himachal Pradesh
Kashmir
Jharkhand
Karnataka
Kerala
Maharashtra
Manipur
Meghalaya
Mizoram
Nagaland
Odisha
Punjab
Rajasthan
Sikkim
Sindhi
Tamil Nadu
Indonesian
Iranian
Iraqi
Irish
Israeli
Italian
Abruzzese
Lombard
Neapolitan
Roman
Sardinian
Sicilian
Venetian
Ivorian (Cte d'Ivoire)
Jamaican
Japanese
Jordanian
Kazakh
Kenyan
Korean
North Korean
Kosovan
Kuwaiti
Kyrgyz
Lao
Latvian
Lebanese
Lesotho
Liberian
Libyan
Liechtensteiner
Lithuanian
Luxembourg
Macau
Macedonian
Malagasy
Malawian
Malaysian
Malay
Chinese
Indian
Eurasian
Sabahan
Sarawakian
Maldivian
Malian
Maltese
Mauritanian
Mauritian
Mexican
Moldovan
Mongasque
Mongolian
Montenegrin
Moroccan
Mozambican
Namibian
Nauruan
Nepalese
New Zealand
Nigerian
Nigerien
Norwegian
Niuean
Omani
Pakistani
Palestinian
Panamanian
Peruvian
Chinese
Polish
Portuguese
Qatari
Romanian
Russian
Rwandan
Salvadoran
Saint Helena
Saint Lucian
Sammarinese
So Tom and Prncipe
Saudi Arabian
Senegalese
Serbian
Seychelles
Sierra Leonean
Singaporean
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
South African
Spanish
Andalusian
Asturian
Balearic
Basque
Canarian
Cantabrian
Catalan
Extremaduran
Galician
Manchegan
Valencian
Sri Lankan
Sudanese
Swazi
Swedish
Swiss
Syrian
Taiwanese
Tajik
Tanzanian
Thai
Togolese
Tunisian
Turkish
Trinidadian and Tobagonian
Ugandan
Ukrainian
United States
California cuisine
Hawaiian
New American
Puerto Rican
Soul food
Uruguayan
Uzbek
Venezuelan
Vietnamese
Vatican
Western Saharan
Yemeni
Zambian
Zimbabwean
Ethnic and religious
Ainu
American Chinese
Anglo-Indian
Arab
Assyrian
Balochi
Balinese
Batak
Bengali
Berber
Betawi
Buddhist
Cajun
Cantonese
Chechen
Chinese Indonesian
Chinese Islamic
Christian
Circassian
Crimean Tatar
Greek American
 Hazaragi
Hindu
Inuit
Italian American
Jain
Javanese
Jewish
Sephardic
Mizrahi
American
Bukharan
Syrian
Komi
Kurdish
Livonian
Louisiana Creole
Malay
Manado
Maharashtrian
Mordovian
Native American
Okinawan
Ossetian
Padang
Parsi
Pashtun
Pennsylvania Dutch
Peranakan
Punjabi
Sami
Sikh
Sindhi
Soul food
Sundanese
Tatar
Udmurt
Yamal
Yup'ik
Zanzibari
Historical
Ancient Egyptian
Ancient Greek
Ancient Israelite
Ancient Roman
Aztec
Byzantine
Early modern European
Historical Chinese
Historical Indian subcontinent
History of seafood
History of vegetarianism
Inca
Mayan
Medieval
Ottoman
Peasant
Soviet
Thirteen Colonies
Styles
Cuisine classique
Fast food
Fusion
Haute
Molecular gastronomy
Note by Note
Nouvelle
Lists
List of cuisines
Lists of prepared foods

 Food portal
 Drink portal
 Category
 Commons
 Cookbook
 WikiProject
 Outline

Authority control 
BNF: cb119649058 (data)
LCCN: sh85031847
NDL: 00568433
SUDOC: 027652785

Gastronomic Japan




Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Japanese_cuisine&oldid=903496677
Categories: Japanese cuisineBuddhist cuisineHidden categories: CS1 uses Japanese-language script (ja)Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 errors: datesCS1 maint: Archived copy as titleCS1 Japanese-language sources (ja)CS1 Indonesian-language sources (id)Use mdy dates from December 2018Articles containing Japanese-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2019Articles with unsourced statements from December 2012Interlanguage link template link numberAll articles that may contain original researchArticles that may contain original research from December 2012All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2016Articles needing cleanup from January 2013All pages needing cleanupWikipedia list cleanup from January 2013Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2015All articles containing potentially dated statementsPortal templates with redlinked portalsCS1: long volume valueArticles with dead external links from August 2018Articles with permanently dead external linksCommons category link is on WikidataArticles with Curlie linksRegion topic template using suffixWikipedia articles with BNF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with NDL identifiersWikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers




Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

ArticleTalk 




Variants







Views

ReadEditView history 



More





Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikivoyage 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


AsturianuAzrbaycancaCataletinaDeutschEspaolEsperantoEuskaraFranaisGaeilgeGidhligBahasa IndonesiaItalianoJawaKurdLietuviMagyarBahasa MelayuNederlandsNorskPolskiPortugusRomnSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenina / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTrkeTing Vit 
Edit links 





 This page was last edited on 26 June 2019, at 02:02(UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 








