










Manufacturing in Japan

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources:Manufacturing in Japannews newspapers books scholar JSTOR (August 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article appears to contradict the  article Economy of Japan#Industry. Please see discussion on the linked talk page. (August 2006) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
 ASIMO is the most advanced humanoid robot
Japan's major export industries include automobiles, consumer electronics (see Electronics industry in Japan), computers, semiconductors, copper, iron and steel.
Additional key industries in Japan's economy are petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, bioindustry, shipbuilding, aerospace, textiles, and processed foods.
Japanese manufacturing industry is heavily dependent on imported raw materials and fuels.[1]

Contents

1 History
2 Ship building
3 Aerospace
4 Petrochemicals
5 Biotechnology and pharmaceutics
6 Motor vehicles and machinery

6.1 Exports and the Japanese market
6.2 Imports


7 Electronics
8 Food
9 See also
10 References
11 External links


History[edit]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (January 2019)
Ship building[edit]
Japan dominated world shipbuilding in the late 1980s, filling more than half of all orders worldwide. Its closest competitors were South Korea and Spain, with 9 percent and 5.2 percent of the market, respectively.[2]
The Japanese shipbuilding industry was hit by a lengthy recession from the late 1970s through most of the 1980s, which resulted in a drastic cutback in the use of facilities and in the work force, but there was a sharp revival in 1989. The industry was helped by a sudden rise in demand from other countries that needed to replace their aging fleets and from a sudden decline in the South Korean shipping industry. In 1988, Japanese shipbuilding firms received orders for 4.8 million gross tons of ships, but this figure grew to 7.1 million gross tons in 1989.[2]
Although facing competition from South Korea and China, Japan retains a successful, advanced shipbuilding manufacturing industry.
Japan lost its leading position in the industry to South Korea in 2004, and its market share has since fallen sharply.[3] The entire European countries' total market share has fallen to only a tenth of South Korea's, and the outputs of the United States and other countries have become negligible. Military shipbuilding remains dominated by U.S. and European companies

Aerospace[edit]
The aerospace industry received a major boost in 1969 with the establishment of the National Space Development Agency (now Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency), which was charged with the development of satellites and launch vehicles.[4]
The Japanese military industry, although a small share of GDP, is a major sector of the economy. It is technologically advanced and is very successful, and has produced such aircraft as the new Mitsubishi fighter planned to be launched.
See: Defense industry of Japan.

Petrochemicals[edit]
The petrochemical industry experienced moderate growth in the late 1980s because of steady economic expansion. The highest growth came in the production of plastics, polystyrene, and polypropylene. Prices for petrochemicals remained high because of increased demand in the newly developing economies of Asia.
By 1990, the construction of factory complexes to make ethylene-based products in the South Korea and Thailand was expected to increase supplies and reduce prices. In the long term, the Japanese petrochemical industry is likely to face intensifying competition as a result of the integration of domestic and international markets and the efforts made by other Asian countries to catch up with Japan.

Biotechnology and pharmaceutics[edit]
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries experienced strong growth in the late 1980s. Pharmaceutical production grew an estimated 8 percent in 1989 because of increased expenditures by Japan's rapidly aging population. Leading producers actively developed new drugs, such as those for degenerative and geriatric diseases. Pharmaceutical companies were establishing tripolar networks connecting Japan, the United States, and Western Europe to co-ordinate product development. They also increased merger and acquisition activity overseas. Biotechnology research and development was progressing steadily, including the launching of marine biotechnology projects, with full-scale commercialization expected to take place in the 1990s.
Biotechnology research covered a wide variety of fields: agriculture, animal husbandry, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, food processing, and fermentation. Human hormones and proteins for pharmaceutical products were sought through genetic recombination using bacteria.
Biotechnology also is used to enhance bacterial enzyme properties to further improve amino-acid fermentation technology, a field in which Japan is the world leader. The government cautions Japanese producers, however, against overoptimism regarding biotechnology and bioindustry. The research race both in Japan and abroad intensified in the 1980s, leading to patent disputes and forcing some companies to abandon research. Also, researchers began to realize that such drug development continually showed new complexities, requiring more technical breakthroughs than first imagined. Yet, despite these problems, research and development was still expected to be successful and to end in product commercialization in the mid-term.
In 2006, the Japanese pharmaceutical market was the second largest individual market in the world. With sales of $60 billion it constitutes approximately 11 percent of the world market.[5]
The Japanese Pharmaceutical Industry and Laws[6] are very particular. They are ruled by The Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare which was established by a merger of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labor, on January 6, 2001 as part of the Japanese government program for re-organizing government ministries.

See also: List of pharmaceutical companies
Motor vehicles and machinery[edit]
The motor vehicle industry is one of the most successful industries in Japan, with large world shares in automobile, electrical machineries, parts, tire and engine manufacturing. Global Japanese motor vehicle companies include:


Toyota
Lexus
Hino
Daihatsu
Honda
Acura
Nissan
Infiniti
Suzuki
Mazda
Mitsubishi
Subaru
Isuzu

Denso is the world's largest company in automotive component manufacturing. In addition, Honda, Suzuki, Yamaha and Kawasaki are global motorcycle companies.
Japan is home to six of the top ten largest vehicle manufacturers in the world. For example, it is home to multinational companies such as Toyota, Honda, Nissan, Suzuki and Mazda. Some of these companies cross-over to different sectors such as electronics to produce electronic equipment as some of them being a part of keiretsu. Japan's automobiles are generally known for their quality, durability, fuel efficiency and more features for a relatively lower price than their competitors.
Japanese automakers Mitsubishi and Toyota have had their patents violated by a number of Myanmar car companies, such as UD Group (Mandalay) and Kyar Koe Kaung (Yangon). These companies produced Mitsubishi and Toyota products including Mitsubishi Pajero, Toyota TownAce pickup trucks and other various types of Japanese cars under their own marques (e.g., Khit Tayar Pajero, Shwe Surf, UD Light Truck and KKK Light Truck) without license.

Exports and the Japanese market[edit]
In 1991, Japan produced 9.7 million automobiles, making it the largest producer in the world; the United States in that year produced 5.4 million. Just under 46 percent of the Japanese output was exported. Automobiles, other motor vehicles, and automotive parts were the largest class of Japanese exports throughout the 1980s. In 1991 they accounted for 17.8 percent of all Japanese exports, a meteoric rise from only 1.9 percent in 1960 with kaya being one of the largest exporters.
Fear of protectionism in the United States (in the wake of the 1973 Arab Oil Embargo where Japanese automobile manufacturers began exporting automobiles en masse) led to major direct foreign investment in the U.S. by Japanese automobile manufacturers. By the end of the 1980s, all the major Japanese producers had automotive assembly lines operating in the United States: Isuzu has a joint plant with Subaru; one of Toyota's plants is in Alabama. Following the major assembly firms, Japanese producers of automobile parts also began investing in the United States in the late 1980s, most Japanese auto parts are nevertheless made in Japan.
Automobiles were a major area of contention for the Japan-United States relationship during the 1980s. When the price of oil rose in the 1979 energy crisis, demand for small automobiles increased, which worked to the advantage of Japan's exports to the United States market. As the Japanese share of the market increased, to 21.8 percent in 1981, pressures rose to restrict imports from Japan. The result of these pressures was a series of negotiations in early 1981, which produced a voluntary export agreement limiting Japan's shipments to the United States to 1.68 million units (excluding certain kinds of specialty vehicles and trucks). This agreement remained in effect for the rest of the decade, but Japanese competition only increased with new plants being built and
with the export agreement being voluntary. The Japanese Big Three (Toyota, Nissan, Honda) also sold luxury automobiles similar to its European counterparts (BMW, Audi, Mercedes, Jaguar) where it was possible to yield profits - since the parent companies had a connotation as an econobox manufacturer with their mass market automobiles, they established their stand-alone luxury marques (Lexus, Acura, Infiniti) where the parent company marketed the same product as a JDM (Japanese Domestic Model). The luxury marques (sold initially for the USA market) may not have their own brand language or brand identity of its own since they are often associated with their parent companies.
Similar voluntary restraints on Japanese exports were imposed by Canada and several West European countries. Nonetheless, Japanese car competition only increased due to new plants being built and with the export agreements being voluntary. Since then, tensions have greatly decreased. Canada and Western Europe, like the U.S., repealed restrictions on Japanese auto imports. Nissan has an assembly plant in Sunderland in England.

Imports[edit]
Foreign penetration of the automotive market in Japan has been less successful partly because of the population density and limited space of the country. Imports of foreign automobiles were very low during the forty years prior to 1985, never exceeding 60,000 units annually, or 1 percent of the domestic market. Trade and investment barriers restricted imported automobiles to an insignificant share of the market in the 1950s, and as barriers were finally lowered, strong control over the distribution networks made penetration difficult. The major United States automobile manufacturers acquired minority interests in some Japanese firms when investment restrictions were relaxed, Ford obtaining a 25 percent interest in Toyo Kogyo (Mazda), General Motors a 34 percent interest in Isuzu, and Chrysler a 15 percent interest in Mitsubishi Motors. This ownership did not provide a means for United States automobiles to penetrate the Japanese market, and the American car companies eventually got rid of their shares of the Japanese carmakers. One concern was that the USA market automobiles sold in Japan were imposed a taxation bracket due to vehicle sizing and engine displacement - which affected sales.
After the strong appreciation of the yen in 1985, however, Japanese demand for foreign automobiles increased, but with most cars imported from Germany. In 1988, automobile imports totaled 150,629 units, of which 127,309 were European, mostly West German. Only 21,124 units were imported from the United States at that time.

See also: List of Japanese automobile manufacturers
Electronics[edit]
Main article: Japanese consumer electronics industry
Many of the world's major electronics companies are based in Japan, including:


Canon
Casio
Citizen
Fujitsu
Hitachi
Mitsubishi Electric
NEC
Nikon
Nintendo
Panasonic
SEGA
Sharp
Seiko
Sony
Toshiba
Yamaha

Japan has 7 out of top 20 world's largest chip manufacturers as of 2005. Japan's electronic products are known for their quality, durability, and technological sophistication. Some of these companies cross over to automobile and finance sectors as part of a keiretsu.
Japan's computer industry developed with extraordinary speed and moved into international markets. Japanese computer technologies are some of the most advanced in the world.
The leading computer main frame manufacturers in Japan at the end of the 1980s (in the domestic market) were:


Fujitsu
Hitachi
NEC
IBM Japan
Unisys

Leading personal computer manufacturers were:


NEC
Fujitsu
Seiko Epson
Toshiba
IBM Japan

In 1988, Japan exported US $1.5 billion of computer equipment, up more than twelvefold from the US$122 million in 1980. Japanese firms were not very successful in exporting mainframe computers, but they did very well in peripheral equipment, such as printers and tape drives. In the rapidly growing personal computer market, Japan achieved a major market share in the United States during the 1980s. Imports of computer equipment in 1988 came to US$3.2 billion (including parts).
Economic developments, namely outsourcing and globalization made these disputes obsolete by the 1990s. Japanese and U.S. influence in the computer market dwindled, with Taiwanese and mainland Chinese companies taking over component production and later research and development.

Food[edit]
The production value of the food industry ranked third among manufacturing industries after electric and transport machinery. Japan produces a great variety of products, ranging from traditional Japanese items, such as soybean paste (miso) and soy sauce, to beer and meat.
The industry as a whole experienced mild growth in the 1980s, primarily from the development of such new products as dry beer and precooked food, which was increasingly used because of the tendency of family members to dine separately, the trend toward smaller families, and convenience.
A common feature of all sectors of the food industry was their internationalization. As domestic raw materials lost their price competitiveness following the liberalization of imports, food makers more often produced foodstuffs overseas, promoted tie-ups with overseas firms, and purchased overseas firms.
In 2004, the Japanese food industry was worth $600 billion whilst food processing was worth $209 billion. This is comparable to the food industries of the United States and the EU.[7]
They also make a lot of candy.

See also[edit]
Economy of Japan
List of Japanese companies
References[edit]
This article incorporatespublic domain material from the Library of Congress Country Studies website http://lcweb2.loc.gov/frd/cs/. - Japan


^ CIA Factbook

^ a b Japan - INDUSTRY. Retrieved 2014-10-17.

^ Korea reigns in shipbuilding, for now - The New York Times. Retrieved 2014-10-17.

^ National Space Development Agency (Japanese government agency) -- Encyclopdia Britannica. Retrieved 2014-10-17.

^ Japanese Pharmaceutical Report

^ Japanese Pharmaceutical Industry and Laws

^ Japanese Food Market Overview


External links[edit]
Japanese Manufacturers Associations See Tfd(in English) See Tfd(in Japanese)
Society of Japanese Aerospace Companies
Made in Japan ONLY - The web magazine which features various kinds of things made in Japan See Tfd(in English) See Tfd(in Japanese)
vteEconomy of JapanHistory
Economic history of Japan
Foreign commerce and shipping of Empire of Japan
Agriculture in the Empire of Japan
Japanese asset price bubble
Japanese economic miracle
Lost Decade (Japan)
Zaibatsu
Nemawashi
Simultaneous recruiting of new graduates
Shshin koy
Nenko System
Salaryman
Keiretsu
Japanese management culture
Standard of living in Japan
Amakudari
Currency
Bank of Japan
Banknotes of the Japanese yen
Japan Mint
Japanese yen
National Printing Bureau
Tokugawa coinage
Scrip of Edo period Japan
Banking and Finance
Nikkei 225
Osaka Securities Exchange
Tokyo Stock Exchange
Financial services in Japan
Japanese financial system
Monetary and fiscal policy of Japan
Capital flows in Japan
Government agencies
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
Japan External Trade Organization
Development Bank of Japan
Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (Japan)
Taxation & Labor market
Taxation in Japan
National Tax Agency
Labor market
Labor unions in Japan
Energy
Energy in Japan
Solar power in Japan
 List of power stations in Japan
 List of Japan natural gas companies
Rankings
International rankings of Japan
Industry
Construction industry of Japan
Automotive industry in Japan
Japanese employment law
Japanese domestic market
Transportation in Japan
Manufacturing industries of Japan
Agriculture, forestry, and fishing in Japan
Fishing industry in Japan
Whaling in Japan
Mining in Japan
Consumer electronics in Japan
Private enterprise in Japan
Japanese public corporations
Defense industry of Japan
Associations
Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry
Japan Business Federation
Japan Association of Corporate Executives
Japan Foreign Trade Council
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association
Other topics
Research and development in Japan
Science and technology in Japan
Industrial policy of Japan
Government-business relations in Japan
Economic relations of Japan
Exports
National debt of Japan

vteManufacturing in AsiaSovereign states
Afghanistan
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Brunei
Cambodia
China
Cyprus
East Timor (Timor-Leste)
Egypt
Georgia
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Israel
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
North Korea
South Korea
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Laos
Lebanon
Malaysia
Maldives
Mongolia
Myanmar
Nepal
Oman
Pakistan
Philippines
Qatar
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Sri Lanka
Syria
Tajikistan
Thailand
Turkey
Turkmenistan
United Arab Emirates
Uzbekistan
Vietnam
Yemen
States withlimited recognition
Abkhazia
Artsakh
Northern Cyprus
Palestine
South Ossetia
Taiwan
Dependencies andother territories
British Indian Ocean Territory
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Hong Kong
Macau

 Book
 Category
 Asia portal





Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Manufacturing_in_Japan&oldid=903387674
Categories: Manufacturing in JapanHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from August 2008All articles needing additional referencesArticles contradicting other articlesArticles to be expanded from January 2019All articles to be expandedArticles using small message boxesWikipedia articles incorporating text from the Library of Congress Country StudiesArticles with Japanese-language external links




Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

ArticleTalk 




Variants







Views

ReadEditView history 



More





Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


EspaolBahasa IndonesiaPortugus 
Edit links 





 This page was last edited on 25 June 2019, at 12:07(UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 








