


















































HOME > Energy & Electricity
								
							
						
						
					
				

				
					
						
							
							
							
								
								
							
							
								
									
										
											
												
													 > Profile of Japan's Major Power Generation Sources
												
											
											
												
											
										
										
									
								
								
							
						
					
				

				
					
				

				
					
				

				
					
				

			
		

		
			
		

		





Energy & Electricity


History of Japan's Electric Power Industry




Japan's Vulnerable Energy Supply Situation




Japan's Energy Policy




Ten Electric Power Companies as Responsible Suppliers of Electricity




Fair Competition and Transparency




Optimal Combination of Power Sources




Electric Power Sources




International Exchanges




Location of Power Plants






Profile of Japan's Major Power Generation Sources




Hydroelectric Power


Hydroelectric power has been one of the few self-sufficient energy resources in resource-poor Japan for more than 100 years. Hydroelectric power is an excellent source in terms of stable supply and generation cost over the long term. Though it used to compare unfavorably with thermal power for some time, hydroelectric power saw a renaissance following the oil crisis.



Okumino Hydroelectric Power Plant (Pumped-storage)






Although the steady development of hydroelectric power plants is desired, 
Japan has used nearly all potential sites for constructing large-scale hydroelectric 
facilities, and so recent developments have been on a smaller scale. As the 
gap in demand between daytime and nighttime continues to widen, electric power 
companies are also developing pumped-storage power generation plants to meet 
peak demand. The share of pumped-storage generation facilities of the total 
hydroelectric power capacity in Japan is growing year by year.



Arimine Daiichi Hydroelectric Power Plant




Thermal Power


Initially, coal was the dominant fuel for thermal power generation in Japan, 
but it later lost that place to oil. Today, a diverse range of fuels including 
coal, oil, and LNG are used for the important generating role that thermal power 
plants play. In particular, in response to global environmental concerns, electric 
power companies are promoting the introduction of LNG fired plants, as they 
emit less CO2 and other pollutants.



Noshiro Thermal Power Plant (Coal-fired)






To enhance thermal efficiency further, combined-cycle power plants with both 
gas and steam turbines have been installed. As a result, gross thermal efficiency 
(maximum designed value) has exceeded 50%. In the future, we will continue to 
research and develop new technologies in order to increase thermal efficiency 
as well as the use of integrated coal gasification combined cycle (IGCC) power 
generation.



Nanko Thermal Power Plant (LNG-fired)




Nuclear Power


Japans first commercial nuclear power plant started operation in Ibaraki Prefecture in 1966. The Electric utility industry believes that nuclear power generation will retain an important position in the optimal combination of power sources from the viewpoint of assuring energy security and mitigating global warming.


Shimane Nuclear Power Plant ( Unit No.3, ABWR, Under Construction)






Electric companies are firmly committed to implementing extensive voluntary safety measures by reinforcing the mechanism to reflect the latest findings from both Japan and overseas, while of course complying with the new regulatory requirements following the accident at the Fukushima-daiichi Nuclear Power Station.


Genkai  Nuclear Power Plant (PWR)






We will also continue to publish the latest information to contribute to 
the safety of nuclear power generation throughout the world.
























