








Jump to navigation


Google Tag Manager 







Los Angeles Conservancy

Preserving & Revitalizing Greater Los Angeles' Architectural Heritage



User menu
Sign in
Cart




Donate
About
Blog
Contact
Subscribe



Find us


Find us:
Facebook Twitter Instagram
 



Search


Search 










Preserving the historic places that make L.A. County unique. Learn More >
 







Explore L.A.Historic Places
Architect Biographies
Historic Sites for Special Events
Curating the City: Eastside L.A.
Curating the City: Garden Apts.
Curating the City: LGBTQ
Curating the City: Modern
Curating the City: Wilshire

Events & ToursUpcoming Events
Walking Tours
Group Walking Tours
Self-Guided Tours
Last Remaining Seats
Preservation Awards
Past Events

Saving PlacesImportant Issues
Preservation by City
Preservation Report Card
L.A. Neighborhoods
How-To Guides
Find a Professional

Student ProgramsStudent Walking Tours
Adventures in Architecture
Resources for Educators

DonatePreservation Advocacy Fund
Memorial and Honor Gifts
Pillar Society
Shop to Support Preservation

MembershipJoin the Conservancy
Renew Your Membership
Monthly Membership
Gift Memberships
Cornerstone Membership
Membership Benefits
Joining vs. Donating
Membership FAQ













Photo by Laura Dominguez/L.A. Conservancy





You are hereHome


Japanese Hospital














Established during an era of discriminatory medical practices, the Japanese Hospital opened its doors to a diverse clientele in the wake of a landmark case before the U.S. Supreme Court. 



      Important Issue: Learn More    



 Resolved 
 Japanese Hospital   





      Key Information    



Architect:Yos Hirose


Year of Completion:1929



Street Address:101 South Fickett Street
Los Angeles, CA 90033
Get directions


Community:Los Angeles


Property Type:Medical


Architectural Style:Streamline Moderne


Original Name:Turner Hospital, City View Hospital









      Related Information    



Curating the City: Eastside L.A.


Culturally Significant





 Nomination and Recommendation Report for Japanese Hospital, City of Los Angeles, May 19, 2016











Overview
A pillar in its community for generations, the Japanese Hospital in Boyle Heights has its rootsin the 1915Turner Hospital.
The facility opened in response to the often-deadly discrimination facing localJapanese Americans,who were consistently denied routine care by hospitals and medical professionals.
Mary Akita, Los Angeles' first Japanese nurse, opened her home as a maternity centeron Turner and Alameda Streets in an effort to serveIssei (first-generation Japanese immigrants) women.

Akita was joined by physician Kikuwo Tashiro in 1922. Though Tashiro was a licensed medical professional in California, few hospitals would grant him staff privileges. At the same time, the anticipated passage of the Immigration Act of 1924, which would prohibit future immigration from Japan, led to an influx of new Japanese residents in Los Angeles in the early 1920s. Against the backdrop of rapidly changing demographics,the need for a larger facility emerged.
Tashiro and four other Japanese doctors purchased a property at First and Fickett streets in Boyle Heights. The group moved tofile articles of incorporation, but their request wasdenied by the Secretary of State's office because aliens ineligible for citizenship could not form corporations as a result ofa 1911 treaty between the U.S. and Japan.
In 1927, Tashiro challenged the law and prevailed before the California Supreme Court. The state filed an appeal, but the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the decision in Jordan vs. K. Tashiroand found the discriminatory provisions of the treaty to be unconstitutional, paving the way forconstruction of the Japanese hospital in Boyle Heights.
Following this success, the local Japanese community came together to raise $129,000 to build the hospital in Boyle Heights.The new forty-two-bed facility opened in 1929, just months before the onset of the Great Depression. In 1935, financial hardship caused TurnerHospital to close its doors and merge with the Japanese Hospital.
As a sign of the inclusivity and multiculturalism of the Eastside community, the Japanese Hospital opened its doors to all patients, regardless of race or ethnicity.

Following the 1941 bombing of Pearl Harbor andthe entry of the U.S. into World War II, President Roosevelt issued an executive order in February 1942 authorizing the internment of thousands of Japanese Americans throughout the country.Because Tashiro and his partners had succeeded in establishing a corporation, they were able to lease the Japanese Hospital facility to theSeventh-day Adventist Church's White Memorial Hospital before their departure.
During the war, the building operated as a maternity hospital. In 1946, Tashiro returned to the Boyle Heights facility.
The Japanese Hospital's services continued to expand during the postwar era. In 1961, it was purchased by Keiro Senior Healthcare, whorelocated itto a larger facility in Lincoln Heights the following year under the name City View Hospital.
As discriminatory practices became less common, younger generations questioned the need for an exclusively Japanese hospital. In 1985, City View Hospital closed its doors and transferred its services for Japanese patientsto a wing at St. Vincent's Medical Center.
The Lincoln Heights location was later demolished, but the Boyle Heights facility operates today as a nursing home.
In 2016, the Little Tokyo Historical Society nominated the property for Historic-Cultural Monument designation.

Gallery:

Manuel Huerta/L.A. ConservancyFormer Japanese Hospital, 2014







Share Your Story 


Do you have a story about this place? Share your memories here!
 















Related Locations    










 Photos by Adrian Scott Fine/L.A. Conservancy 


More: Medical Universal Care Medical & Dental Building

The former California Teachers Association Building is an excellent and rare example of Late Moderne commercial architecture in Westlake. 






 Photo by Stephen Russo 


More: 1910s YWCA Harbor Area & South Bay

Julia Morgan, the first woman licensed as an architect in California, designed this historic YWCA building in 1918.






 Photo from Security Pacific Collection/Los Angeles Public Library 


More: Streamline Moderne Woodbury College (Demolished)

A beautiful Streamline Moderne design by Claud Beelman.

















Become a Member
523 W. Sixth St., Suite 826,Los Angeles, CA 90014
Office: (213) 623-2489
Fax: (213) 623-3909
info@laconservancy.org

 



Explore L.A.

Historic Places
Architect Biographies
Historic Sites for Special Events
Curating the City: Eastside L.A.
Curating the City: Garden Apts.
Curating the City: LGBTQ
Curating the City: Modern
Curating the City: Wilshire



Events & Tours

Upcoming Events
Walking Tours
Group Walking Tours
Self-Guided Tours
Last Remaining Seats
Preservation Awards
Past Events



Important Issues

Urgent
Active
Watch List
Saved
Resolved
Lost



Donate

Preservation Advocacy Fund
Memorial and Honor Gifts
Pillar Society
Shop to Support Preservation







The Los Angeles Conservancy is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Copyright  2019Los Angeles Conservancy. Usage & Privacy
 







