










TechRadar The source for Tech Buying Advice




Search








RSS

















Reviews
How To
Phones
TVs
Laptops
Photography
Deals

More  Car Tech
Wearables
Tablets
Components
Audiovisual
Gaming
Computing
Downloads
News
Video
Magazine



Pro


Future University









Trending

 Buying Guides
 Best Laptops
 Pixel 4
 Best Phones
 Best TVs
 iOS 13
 macOS Catalina




News
The best iPhone games to play in 2019
The best iPhone games to play in 2019


By
Craig Grannell
2019-06-24T12:40:36Z

Mobile phones



The top iPhone games you can find right now

























 Shares 





 Page 1 of 10:



Game of the week and the best iPhone strategy games



Game of the week and the best iPhone strategy games




The best adventure games for iPhone




The best arcade games for iPhone




The best endless runners for iPhone




The best platform games for iPhone




The best puzzle games for iPhone




The best racing games for iPhone




The best shooting games for iPhone




The best sports games for iPhone




The best word games for iPhone






If you've got a new or upgraded iPhone, or are simply just bored with what you've already got, then you'll be exhilarated to hear that you can revolutionise it, turning it into one of the greatest consoles of all time.That's because the iPhone arguably kicked off the mobile gaming revolution, becoming home to exciting multitouch innovation through to ports of famous arcade titles.Jump to section- Strategy games- Adventure games- Arcade games- Endless runner games- Platform games- Puzzle games- Racing games- Shooting games- Sports games- Word gamesToday, most phones are capable, powerful handheld consoles if you know the right games to buy.This round-up covers the best iPhone games available right now. Its split into categories, so you can jump right to the top racers, puzzle games, adventures, platformers, and more.Well also highlight one new game each week as our iPhone game of the week, so remember to check back regularly to get a taste of the latest game to consume your waking hours.iPhone game of the week: Magnibox ($3.99/3.99/AU$5.99)Magnibox is a single-screen platform puzzler, where you direct a chunky magnet to its goal. Said magnet trundles left and right, and the key to reaching the exit is in figuring out how to use the various objects peppered about the place.These include boxes to make bridges, conveyor belts, and lifts that are automatically triggered when you roll on to them, sometimes acting as barriers rather than a helpful means to travel higher up the screen.The main draw, though, is the magnets. With a touch of a button, these attract or repel our metal hero across the screen. Its another great example of how a novel mechanic can breathe new life into familiar puzzling territory. And the relentlessly jaunty music and vibrant graphics dont hurt either.The best iPhone strategy gamesThese are our favorite iPhone card games, RTS and turn-based strategy titles, and board games to check out right now.Kingdom Rush Vengeance ($4.99/4.99/AU$7.99)Kingdom Rush Vengeance is the latest entry in mobile gamings foremost tower defense series. As ever, the basics involve using resources to buy towers that stem the flow of adversaries. If too many of them reach their goal, youre defeated and must try again.The twist  at least from a storyline perspective  is that youre the bad guy. Veznan the wizard has had enough, and is now on the rampage, attacking his nemeses. (How this is achieved through tower defense, weve no idea, but, well, video games.)Its visually smart, with varied levels, plus added strategy in the form of heroes to deploy and special powers to unleash. Even though its a touch fiddly on iPhone, and gates some towers and heroes behind IAP, Vengeance should be immediately snapped up by any fan of the genre.Twinfold ($3.99/3.99/AU$5.99)Twinfold initially comes across a bit like iOS tile-sliding match classic Threes! You move cards within a claustrophobic grid, aiming to match pairs and double their face value, and cards all sport expressions, imbuing them with the kind of personality typically absent from such games.Very rapidly, though, you realize Twinfold has more in common with turn-based dungeon crawlers than puzzlers. Your aim is primarily to survive; and this requires you learn and master rules and powers that enable you to efficiently deal with enemies roaming the mazes that shift and change every time you gulp down an energy-giving yellow card.Despite the tight confines of the arena, theres loads of depth here  but it sits behind a vibrant and inviting interface that ensures immediacy and accessibility. Top stuff.Euclidean Skies ($4.99/4.99/AU$7.99)Euclidean Skies takes the framework behind iOS classic Euclidean Lands and stretches it to breaking point. Lands had you move in turn-based fashion on floating structures akin to Rubiks Cubes, attacking nearby foes in chess-like fashion. Manipulating the landscape was as important as the direction of your next step. But in Skies, the land itself can be pulled to pieces.This means the originals quiet clockwork elegance has been replaced with a kind of brain-thumping chaos. You may be tasked with obliterating a giant monsters spine by reworking the landscape, or figuring out how to simultaneously carve a pathway to a switch and some doors.Its hard work, but hugely rewarding; and even though the games a touch fiddly on the smaller screen, iCloud sync means you can always pick up from where you left off on your iPad.Reigns: Game of Thrones ($3.99/3.99/AU$5.99)Reigns: Game of Thrones slaps a famous license on now-familiar Tinder-meets-kingdom management larks from the original Reigns, and follow-up Reigns: Her Majesty. You tend to the needs and desires of your subjects and enemies, keeping the army, church, people and bank happy  but not to the point theyll instigate your untimely demise.Flick cards left or right and your approval ratings change accordingly  and sometimes unpredictably. Quests and themes run throughout, providing surprising depth, given the basic nature of your interactions.The writing is great, although the game is more enjoyable if youre a fan of the TV show on which its based. But even if youre a newcomer, this Reigns is fun, with you seeing how far you can get into its complex narrative web before being brutally taken down by any number of foes.Sid Meier's Civilization VI (free + $19.99/19.99/AU$30.99 IAP)Sid Meier's Civilization VI is one of the PCs finest 4X (eXplore; eXpand; eXploit; eXterminate) strategy titles. Its turn-based shenanigans have you explore a brand-new world, aiming to be the dominant civilization through conquering space, getting absurdly rich, or giving everyone else a kicking until your mobs the only one left standing.When the game arrived for iPad, that was an eye-opener, but now its on your iPhone. This isnt a cut-back, cartoonish take either  its the full experience.There are drawbacks beyond the high price  the games a touch fiddly on a phone, requires powerful hardware, and lacks cloud save sync. Wed love to play a few turns on the train and continue later on an iPad. Gripes aside, this game showcases the potential for immersive AAA experiences on iPhone like no other.Meteorfall: Journey ($2.99/2.99/AU$4.49)Meteorfall: Journey is a mobile-friendly adventuring game, but rather than your hero venturing forth into a grid-like take on a fantasy realm, everything heres based around a deck of cards.Decisions are made Tinder-style, with you swiping left or right. You might beat up a monster or save your strength for later, knowing in the back of your mind that growing more powerful only comes from battle victories. Or while on the road, you might face the choice between visiting a blacksmith for weapons upgrades or a temple to optimize the cards you hold.This might sound complex, but its really not. Meteorfall: Journey is approachable and immediate, but with enough depth to keep you playing for many months due to its semi-random setups, multiple heroes and varied quests.Reigns: Her Majesty ($2.99/2.99/AU$4.49)Reigns: Her Majesty is a kingdom management game smashed into Tinder. You must tend to the needs and desires of your subjects, ensuring the church, people, army and treasury are kept happy  but not powerful enough to instigate your untimely demise.Actions happen by flicking cards left or right in response to requests and questions. Your approval rating with the aforementioned factions then changes  sometimes unpredictably. Its a simple, fun system, but one with surprising depth.This is partly down to a great script, but the balancing act is further complicated and augmented by challenges. When completed, these often unlock new cards and storylines. And should things go badly wrong, death is not the end  quests thread throughout the ages as you play on as the next in a seemingly endless line of queens.Card Crawl ($2.99/2.99/AU$4.49)Card Crawl is solitaire reimagined as a dungeon crawler  or perhaps the other way around. Regardless, it pits you against a grumpy ogres deck of 54 cards. During each round, he deals four cards, which may be a mix of weapons, potions, spells, and hideous enemies.Your own four slots are for the adventurer, your two hands, and a backpack to stash items in for later. The adventurers health is diminished when fighting monsters (unless armed), but you can counter by getting stabby with swords (or hiding behind a shield, like a coward).Games are brief  only a few minutes long  but Card Crawl manages to balance randomness and strategy. Over time, you can unlock new abilities and figure out strategies to boost your high scores. Its a polished, entertaining and clever take on card games thats ideal for iPhone.Exploding Kittens ($1.99/1.99/AU$2.99)High-octane card games dont seem the greatest fit for iPhone gaming, but Exploding Kittens perfectly captures the manic chaos of the Oatmeal-illustrated original. As per that version, this is Russian roulette with detonating cats.Players take turns to grab a card, and if they get an exploding kitten, they must defuse it or very abruptly find themselves out of the game.Strategy comes by way of action cards, which enable you to peek at the deck, skip a turn, steal cards from an opponent, and draw from the bottom of the deck like the baby you are.Local and online multiplayer is supported, timers stop people from dawdling, and a chance of kitten meter helps everyone keep track of the odds. Large hands of cards rather irritatingly require quite a bit of swiping to peruse (although cards can be reordered), but otherwise this is first-rate and amusingly deranged multiplayer mayhem.Warbits ($4.99/4.99/AU$7.99)Nintendo fans probably wonder why the big N hasn't yet brought the superb Advance Wars to iPad, but Warbits now scratches that particular itch. However, although Warbits is influenced by Nintendo's turn-based strategy title, it isn't a copy  the iOS game brings plenty of new thinking to the table and is very much optimised for the iPad.Working with 16 varied units, you conquer a series of battlefields by directing your troops, making careful note of your strengths and the enemy's relevant weaknesses. All the while, Warbits merrily has you and your opponent trading barbs, often about subjects such as whether tomatoes are fruit, because that's the kind of thing you'd go to war over.Finish the 20-mission campaign and you'll have a decent grasp of Warbits, and can then venture online to take on other human players across dozens of different maps. With superb visuals, enough new ideas over the game that inspired it, and a single one-off price-tag, Warbits is a must-buy for any iPhone-owning strategy nut.



1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


Current page:

Game of the week and the best iPhone strategy games



Next Page The best adventure games for iPhone



See more Mobile phones news 




  


Tech deals, prizes and latest news



Get the best tech deals, reviews, product advice, competitions, unmissable tech news and more!


No spam, we promise. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details without your permission.






Most Popular


Most Shared







1Democratic Debate 2019: how to watch the Presidential debate the live stream








2Best phone in the US for 2019: the top 15 smartphones we've tested








3Microsoft could make AMD-powered Surface devices after falling out with Intel








4Steam Summer Sale 2019: the best deals and PC games on the Steam marketplace








5New iPhone 11 release date, price, news and leaks








1Democratic Debate 2019: how to watch the Presidential debate the live stream








2Microsoft could make AMD-powered Surface devices after falling out with Intel








3Oppo shows off its Under-Screen Camera tech, and it could be the future of phones








4Android Auto's new interface, featuring dark mode, is rolling out from today








5Xbox Project Scarlett release date, specs and games confirmed for Xbox Two








TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
About Us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Advertise with us
Web notifications



Future US, Inc. 
11 West 42nd Street, 15th Floor,
New York,
NY 10036. 


