










TechRadar The source for Tech Buying Advice




Search








RSS

















Reviews
How To
Phones
TVs
Laptops
Photography
Deals

More  Car Tech
Wearables
Tablets
Components
Audiovisual
Gaming
Computing
Downloads
News
Video
Magazine



Pro


Future University









Trending

 Buying Guides
 Best Laptops
 Pixel 4
 Best Phones
 Best TVs
 iOS 13
 macOS Catalina




News
The best free iPad games in 2019
The best free iPad games in 2019


By
Craig Grannell
2019-06-24T15:53:39Z

Tablets



The best free games for iPad, iPad Pro and iPad mini

























 Shares 





 Page 1 of 10:



Game of the week and the best free iPad arcade games



Game of the week and the best free iPad arcade games




The best free endless runners for iPad




The best free match games for iPad




The best free platform games for iPad




The best free puzzle games for iPad




The best free racing games for iPad




The best free shooting games for iPad




The best free sports games for iPad




The best free strategy games for iPad




The best free word games for iPad






Perhaps you've just bought an iPad, or just been given one for the first time. Or maybe you're thinking that your Apple tablet is old and boring and there's nothing fun left that it can do.Well, friend, you're entirely wrong. Fortunately, the App Store offers loads of gaming greats for you, even if you've forked out your last bit of cash to buy the iPad itself.Jump to section- Arcade games- Endless runner games- Match games- Platform games- Puzzle games- Racing games- Shooting games- Sports games- Strategy games- Word gamesOur lists cover the best free iPad puzzle games, racers, platform games, and more, split into categories (one on each page) for your perusing pleasure.Plus, check back weekly for our free iPad app of the week, where you'll find that below as we look at new titles all the time.Free iPad game of the week: Grow in the Hole(Image credit: Ellis Spice)Grow in the Hole is a side-on minimalist golf game reminiscent of iOS classic Desert Golfing. As in that title, you drag to set each shots direction and power. The twist: for every shot that doesnt make the hole, your ball grows.Helpfully, the game keeps track of how many goes you have until your balls too big to putt  at which point, game over. Successfully putt, and the ball shrinks a little so you can continue your oddball golfing quest.Grow in the Hole is visually crude, but gets things right in the gameplay stakes. The controls are precise, and theres a decent selection of options, whether you fancy a quick nine-hole blast, or to pit your digits against a surprisingly intense (when youre down to those last shots) endless mode.Best free iPad arcade gamesOur favorite iPad arcade games, including brawlers and fighting games, auto-runners, party games, pinball, and retro classics.Williams PinballWilliams Pinball brings a selection of classic pinball tables to your iPad, and then adds animated remastering  at least, if youre prepared to work for it.Initially, you just get to unlock one table for unlimited play. (Pick a good one  Attack from Mars, The Getaway, or Medieval Madness  because youll be playing it a lot.) Through daily challenges, youll then slowly acquire the parts to gradually unlock other tables  unless you fancy splashing out on IAP to buy them outright.This probably sounds a bit awful, but the truth is youre grinding by playing pinball. Also, the challenges often give you unlimited balls, so you can learn the tables. Stay the course, and eventually you can boost these already top-notch recreations with tough pro-level physics and animated components.Fly THIS!Fly THIS! echoes early App Store hit Flight Control, having you draw paths for planes to follow. But whereas the older title was an endless test that relentlessly ramped up the panic, this newer game feels more strategic and bite-sized.The planes are fewer in number, but the maps are more claustrophobic. Also, youre not just making planes land  instead, you ferry passengers between airports. Further complications come in the form of weather, and massive mountains you really dont want to fly planes into.Because each level has a set points target, Fly THIS! is great for playing in short bursts as well. In all, its a smart reimagining of a long-lost iPad favorite, which in many ways is more appealing than the game that presumably inspired it.SkullgirlsSkullgirls is an impressive tappy brawler  akin to Street Fighter II reimagined for touch, by someone very much against the concept of virtual joypads.This means swipes and taps are the order of the day, swift finger movements being used to duff up opponents. Buttons merely exist to fire off special moves, or tag in a team-mate when youve been punched in the face one time too many. It all works very well for the games fast pace.Visually, Skullgirls dazzles, too, recalling an amped-up take on classic 1940s cartoons and manga. Character design  bar questionably skimpy clothing choices here and there  is especially impressive: one fighters Lovecraftian hair has a life of its own; another is a humanoid brass instrument that transforms into a massive French horn that mows down foes. Parp!Super FowlstSuper Fowlst is the follow-up to the unhinged Fowlst. Whereas the original was Flappy Bird in a box, reimagined as a hard-as-nails arena shooter, this sequel gives you more room to breathe.The controls remain the same  tap left or right to flap in the relevant direction, moving in an arc as you do so. But multi-screen levels and a lower concentration of enemies makes for an experience that has space for exploration and unearthing secrets, rather than solely being an ongoing frantic dash for survival.Thats not to say Super Fowlst is easy  far from it. The boss battles in particular are extremely tough, and it will take you some time before you can last a dozen levels. But this one feels like anyone has a crack at becoming super rather than only gaming gurus.Train PartyTrain Party is a multiplayer game for between two and twelve people. In cooperative mode, you all work as a team, trying to keep a train going for as long as possible. You lay tracks for it to chug along, move wildlife from its path, and deal with a renegade track bomber. In competitive mode, Train Party gets added bite, the winner being the last person to survive without wrecking the train.In either mode, this is a fun game, and it works particularly well on iPad. The larger display means even the sausage-fingered can play with an excellent degree of accuracy. Also, an iPad is a much weightier device to whack a chum with should they get a bit cocky after their fifth Train Party win in a rowShadow Fight 3Shadow Fight 3 is a side-on one-on-one brawler set in a world of shadows that stands on the edge of a great war. In gaming terms, though, its mostly an excuse to whip your sword out, slice up your opponent, and then give them a few kicks and punches for good measure.The fighty action works especially well on the iPad. The large screen provides plenty of space for the lush visuals, and your thumbs dont cover anything important up while they battle with the surprisingly responsive virtual controls.Your ongoing mission is a bit grindy at times, with an underlying RPG-lite mechanic of upgrades, but the brawls are great, whether youre mastering a new weapon, unleashing shadow powers, or figuring out how to get the odd punch in when youve lost your sword and an opponent is moving in for the kill.Beat StreetBeat Street is a love letter to classic scrolling brawlers, where a single, determined hero pummels gangs of evil-doers and saves the day. In Beat Street, giant vermin are terrorizing Toko City, and will only stop when youve repeatedly punched them in the face.On iPhone, Beat Street is a surprisingly successful one-thumb effort, but on iPad youre better off playing in landscape. With your left thumb, you can dance about, and then use your right to hammer the screen (and the opposition).The iPads large display shows off the great pixel art, but the fighty gameplays the real star  from you taking on far too many opponents at once to gleefully beating one about the head with a baseball bat. It turns out they do make em like they used to after all.Up the WallUp the Wall is an auto-runner with an edge. Or rather, lots of edges. Because instead of being played on a single plane, Up the Wall regularly has you abruptly turn 90-degree corners, some of which find you zooming up vertical walls.The speed and snap twists make for a disorienting experience, but the games design is extremely smart where, most notably, each challenge is finite and predefined. Up the Wall isnt about randomness and luck, but mastering layouts, and aiming for that perfect run.It nails everything else, too. The game sounds great, and has sharp, vibrant visuals, with imaginative environments. Its not often youre frantically directing a burger in an abstract fever dream of milkshakes and ketchup bottles, nor a skull in a world of flames, lava, and guitars.Stranger Things: The GameStranger Things: The Game is a rarity: a free tie-in videogame thats not rubbish. In fact, its a really good old-school action-adventure that should delight old-timers and also click with people who follow the TV show.The idea is to figure out whats going on in Hawkins, Indiana, where things have gone deeply weird. You start off playing Officer Hopper, who scowls and punches his way about, but soon find kids to join your crew, including Lucas and his wrist rockets, and bat-swinging Nancy.Occasionally, the game echoes old-school fare a little too well, with set-piece sections that are tough to crack (although you do get infinite attempts)  and the map is if anything too big; for the most part, though, Stranger Things: The Game is a clever, engaging, and compelling slice of mobile adventuring.Silly WalksSilly Walks is a one-thumb arcade game, featuring wobbling foodstuffs braving the hell of nightmarish kitchens (and, later, gardens and gyms), in order to free fruity chums whove been cruelly caged.The hero of the hour  initially a pineapple cocktail  rotates on one foot. Tapping the screen plants a foot, causing him to rotate on the other foot and changing the direction of rotation. Charitably, this could be called a step, and with practice, its possible to put together a reasonable dodder.And youll need to. Although early levels only require you to not fall off of tables, pretty soon youre dealing with meat pulverizers, hero-slicing knives, and psychotic kitchenware in hot pursuit.Its admittedly all a little one-level  Silly Walks reveals almost all in its initial levels  but smart design, superb visuals, and a unique control method make it well worth a download.Transformers: Forged to FightWe shouldnt encourage them, really. Transformers: Forged to Fight is packed full of horrible free-to-play trappings: timers; gates; a baffling currency/resource system. And yet its a horribly compelling title. Much of this is down to how much fun it apparently is to watch giant robots punching each other in the face.If youre unfamiliar with Transformers, its based around robots that disguise themselves as cars and planes as a kind of camouflage - and then they forget about all that, transform into bipedal robots, and attempt to smash each other to bits.This game has various Transformers universes colliding, which for fans only increases the fun  after all, old hands can watch with glee as old-school Optimus Prime hacks Michael Bays version to pieces with a massive axe. But for newcomers hankering for one-on-one Street Fighterish brawls on an iOS device, its still a freebie worth grabbing.Silly Sausage: Doggy DessertThe worlds stretchiest canines found himself in a world full of sticky desserts and a surprising number of saw blades. His aim: get to the other end of this deadly yet yummy horizontally scrolling world. The snag: the aforementioned blades, a smattering of puzzles, and the way this particular pooch moves.In Silly Sausage: Doggy Dessert, the canine hero doesnt pootle along on tiny legs  instead, you swipe to make his body stretch like an angular snake until he reaches another surface, whereupon his hind quarters catch up.The result is an impressive side-scroller thats more sedate puzzler than frantic platformer  aside from in adrenaline-fueled time-based challenge rooms, which even Silly Sausage veterans will be hard-pressed to master.Keep your iPad secure with one of these best free VPN apps


1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


Current page:

Game of the week and the best free iPad arcade games



Next Page The best free endless runners for iPad



See more Tablets news 




  


Tech deals, prizes and latest news



Get the best tech deals, reviews, product advice, competitions, unmissable tech news and more!


No spam, we promise. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details without your permission.






Most Popular


Most Shared







1Democratic Debate 2019: how to watch the Presidential debate the live stream








2Best phone in the US for 2019: the top 15 smartphones we've tested








3Microsoft could make AMD-powered Surface devices after falling out with Intel








4Steam Summer Sale 2019: the best deals and PC games on the Steam marketplace








5New iPhone 11 release date, price, news and leaks








1Democratic Debate 2019: how to watch the Presidential debate the live stream








2Microsoft could make AMD-powered Surface devices after falling out with Intel








3Oppo shows off its Under-Screen Camera tech, and it could be the future of phones








4Android Auto's new interface, featuring dark mode, is rolling out from today








5Xbox Project Scarlett release date, specs and games confirmed for Xbox Two








TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
About Us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Advertise with us
Web notifications



Future US, Inc. 
11 West 42nd Street, 15th Floor,
New York,
NY 10036. 


