



Skip to main content



 


Hey, there! Log in / Register 



 










 



 






The T
Neighborhoods
Crime
Development
Fire
Boston English
Boston Answers



 






Home  Boston  East Boston

Alleged MS-13 member caught hanging out in an East Boston park with a loaded gun gets 14 months  





By adamg on Fri, 06/07/2019 - 9:43am 

A federal judge this week sentenced Nery Rodriguez Diaz, 19, a Salvadoran national living in Chelsea, to 14 months in federal prison after he pleaded guilty to being an alien in possession of a firearm and ammunition.
Federal agents arrested Rodriguez Diaz and Elmer Alfaro Hercules in Bremen Street Park on gun charges on May 22, 2018. Rodriguez Diaz had a silver Smith and Wesson .38 caliber revolver loaded with five rounds, according to the indictment against them. The feds say they were monitoring the park because it had become an MS-13 hangout.
Hercules has already been sentenced to 13 months in prison. Both men entered the country illegally and will be subject to deportation once their sentences are done, the US Attorney's office in Boston reports.
Diaz had been charged by local authorities with armed assault with intent to murder and assault and battery with a dangerous weapon for a 2017 incident in which he and two other men allegedly held somebody down in Everett and stabbed him 22 times, but the case was dismissed in March after the victim, who survived, disappeared, the US Attorney's office reports.Neighborhoods:East BostonChelseaTopics:CrimeFree tagging:MS-13Bremen Street Parkgangs
AttachmentSize 

 Government sentencing recommendation40.28 KB 


facebooktwitteremailprint 
Reply
Ad:







Comments


Suspected MS-13 member is

By Tobasco da Gama on Fri, 06/07/2019 - 9:57am. 

Suspected MS-13 member is the new bad hombre.
up4 
reply



Nah

By adamg on Fri, 06/07/2019 - 12:07pm. 

The reason I wrote it like that was that, unlike the dozens of people indicted a few years ago, this guy actually contested that he was an MS-13 member, and prosecutors said it wasn't worth their while to prove he was, since the charges against him didn't hinge on whether or not he was a member, so who am I to judge? In the earlier cases, the 61 people who got swept up were all charged with RICO violations, which require proof of membership in a particular organization (and then most of them pleaded guilty as charged, basically).up11 
reply













 


Support Universal Hub

Help keep Universal Hub going. If you like what we're up to and want to help out, please consider a (completely non-deductible) contribution.
 


In other East Boston news




 They probably honked at people to get out of their way  

 Old Ray Flynn signs never die; they just get reused in Eastie  

 BPS plans to expand 17 elementary schools; build an entirely new one in East Boston  

 Man shot in hand in East Boston; he's found in bullet-riddled car in Chelsea  

 Densification settles over Orient Heights  

 That sinking feeling - in the water off East Boston  

 



 













Copyright 2019 by Adam Gaffin and by content posters.Advertise | About Universal Hub | Contact | Privacy 








