








Skip to main content



Sections

Home
Washington
National
International
 


Commentary
Video
Blog
Cartoons



Social

 E-Brief










Information
About Us
Subscribe
Donate
 





Media Research Center
CNSNews.com
NewsBusters
MRCTV
MRC Latino
MRC Business
MRC Culture







Toggle navigation




sections


















DONATE












 
















MS-13 Illegal Alien Who Entered U.S. as 'Unaccompanied Minor' Sentenced for Carrying Gun in Boston







 
                        By CNSNews.com Staff | June 6, 2019 | 5:33 PM EDT          




  
  
   

 
(Getty Images/Robert Nickelsberg)

(CNSNews.com) - An MS-13 member from El Salvador who illegally entered the United States in 2014 as an unaccompanied minor has been sentenced to 14 months in prison for being an illegal alien in possession of a firearm and ammunition, the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts said in a statement released today.
Nery Rodriguez Diaz, 19, a Salvadoran national who resided in Chelsea, was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge F. Dennis Saylor IV to 14 months in prison and three years of supervised release. Diaz will also be subject to deportation proceedings upon completion of his sentence, said the U.S. attorneys statement.
On May 22, 2018, Diaz and another MS-13 member, Elmer Alfaro Hercules, were arrested in possession of loaded firearms in Bremen Street Park in East Boston, a location where numerous MS-13 gang members have been observed and where gang-on-gang violence frequently occurs, said the statement.
The investigation revealed that Diaz and Hercules each separately and unlawfully entered the United States in 2014 as unaccompanied minors. Both Diaz and Hercules were charged federally for being aliens in possession of a firearm and ammunition, said the statement.
Hercules previously pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 13 months in prison and three years of supervised release, it said. Hercules will also be subject to deportation proceedings after the completion of his sentence.





 
  

 

 FollowCNSNews.com StaffBio | ArchiveMore from CNSNews.com Staff 
Printer-friendly version
 
Sponsored Links

View the discussion thread.





 






























 

















Home
Washington
National
International



About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Donate
Video
Blog
Commentary
Editorials
Advertise
RSS



Copyright 1998-2019 CNSNews.com.

The mission of the Media Research Center is to create a media culture in America where truth and liberty flourish. The MRC is a research and education organization operating under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and contributions to the MRC are tax-deductible.
Copyright  2017, Media Research Center. All Rights Reserved.








