






Menu
Today's paper













Get breaking news alerts from Newsday
Turn on notifications?
Yes
Not now


Desktop notifications are on


Not Enabled
You might be using private browsing or have notifications blocked. Please enable notifications or using normal browsing mode.




Log in
ACCOUNT
Subscribe







SEARCH 



Long Island
Sports
Entertainment
News
Feed Me
Opinion
Business
Obituaries
All







TODAY'S PAPER





83

6/30/2019
Good Afternoon








SEARCH 





Home

Long Island 

Nassau
Suffolk
Education
Crime
Politics
Towns
Investigations
Data and maps
Commuting
LI Life
History
Obituaries



Sports

Yankees
Mets
Islanders
Rangers
Jets
Giants
Knicks
Nets
High school
College
Columns
Videos
Scores
Baseball
Basketball
Boxing
Football
Golf
Hockey
Horse Racing
Media
MMA
Motor Racing
Olympics
Soccer



Entertainment

Movies
TV
Celebrities
Music
Books
Theater
Reality TV
Nassau Coliseum
Crosswords
Puzzles
Comics


Feed Me

Things to Do

Restaurants
Family
Pets
Travel
Food and Drink
Top 100 Restaurants
Fashion and Shopping
Home and Garden
LI Getaways
Recreation
Retirement
Advice
Events
Beaches
Fourth of July


News

Nation and World
NYC
State and Region
Health
Technology
Lottery



Opinion

Matt Davies
Columnists
Letters to the editor
Submit your letter



Business

Real Estate
Technology
Cars
Columns
Mutual funds
Markets
Stocks


Cars
Real Estate
Jobs
Obituaries
Special Sections
Classifieds
Crosswords
Weather
Traffic
Data
Horoscopes












83

6/30/2019
Good Afternoon





LOG IN

SUBSCRIBE
NEWSLETTERS



LOG OUT

CHANGE PASSWORD
MANAGE MY ACCOUNT


MANAGE NEWSLETTERS 












Long IslandInvestigations
Conflicting figures on Long Island's MS-13 membership raise questions







	  Homeland Security Investigations ICE agents work in a control center during an operation targeting immigrant gangs in Central Islip in March 2018.         Photo Credit: Getty Images/John Moore     



By Will Van Sant will.vansant@newsday.com
Updated June 14, 2019 5:00 AM



 Print


Share 


fbShare
 Tweet
 Email



In the two years since Operation Matador began, law enforcement officials have given conflicting figures for the number of MS-13 members on Long Island.
This has raised questions about the size of the gang locally and whether its magnitude has been exaggerated at a time when President Donald Trump and his allies have been criticized for distorting the threat the gang poses for political ends.
Even before he was inaugurated, Trump was pointing to MS-13s killings on Long Island to justify the need for stricter immigration enforcement. Theyre killing and raping everyone out there, Trump told a Time magazine reporter in December 2016, a year that saw the gang claim eight lives in Nassau and Suffolk counties. Theyre illegal. And they are finished.
The gang's viciousness is not in dispute, but its size and reach have been a matter of debate.

Jose Miguel Cruz, a Florida International University professor who has studied MS-13, said that there are larger gangs responsible for more violence, but MS-13 is the perfect culprit if you want to sell your anti-immigrant program.
At a forum in Bethpage a year ago, acting Assistant Attorney General John Cronan put the number of MS-13 gang members on Long Island at roughly 2,000, but other law enforcement leaders offer significantly lower estimates.
Becoming a full-fledged member of the gang typically involves an initiation period that culminates in a final test an act of violence. Formal acceptance into the ranks is then marked by a beating at the hands of already-made members.
Steven Dudley, a co-director of InSight Crime, a research initiative funded in part by the U.S. Department of Justice, has studied and written about MS-13 on Long Island. Dudley said cliques may have dozens of hangers-on with a core few ready to commit violence in hope of becoming made members.
Others on the periphery, sometimes known as banderas, are errand-runners or lookouts. In the outer ring, Dudley said, are girlfriends, family members and others with little to no involvement in committing crime. While some recruits are eager, Dudley said the gang also uses threats to coerce reluctant young people into service.
Matador targeted not only bona fide members, but also those that authorities labeled gang affiliates or associates.
Law enforcement will play up the numbers or downplay the numbers based on their need, said Dudley, who spoke broadly, not in direct reference to any agencies hes dealt with on Long Island. The risk can be played up for political advantage.
Nassau and Suffolk police have strongly defended their numbers.
Cruz said that nationwide law enforcement tends to inflate figures by identifying allwho haveinteracted with MS-13 as gang members,especially if they are young. Complicating the picture, he said, are teens who may pretend to some gang standing to appear tough.
But they are in no way gang members, Cruz said. The gang wont recognize them as members of the clique.
Dudley said the gangs cliques on Long Island typically have between 10 and 15 full-fledged or beaten-inmembers.
News reports and interviews with law enforcement sources indicate there are roughly 11 MS-13 cliques on Long Island. Assuming all are active  unlikely given the recent law enforcement crackdown  and boast a cohort of 15, the actual number of beaten-in MS-13 members on Long Island would be 165.
The Suffolk County Police Department, in written responses to questions, said Dudleys figures were consistent with old norms for MS-13.
Today, cliques can have 20 or more members, particularly in communities with a large MS-13 population. Communities with smaller MS-13 populations tend to have smaller cliques. MS-13 has even ordered the merger of some smaller and/or less active cliques into broader cliques.
Assuming all the estimated 11 Long Island cliques have more than 20 members, say 25, that puts the MS-13 population at 275, or 14 percent of the 2,000 figure the DOJ official gave.
In testimony before the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs in May 2017, the month Matador launched, then Suffolk Police Commissioner Timothy Sini said there are approximately 400 MS-13 gang members in Suffolk organized in approximately nine cells called cliques. By Sinis math, each clique would have had to have about 45 members, far higher than most estimates.
In an interview, now Suffolk District Attorney Sini said his 400 figure was an approximate number taken from the police departments gang database, which includes admitted MS-13 members or those who have met quite a stringent confirmation protocol. He waved off figures provided by Dudley and the police department, asking a reporter where he had gotten them, and said that we have cliques in Suffolk County with over 100 gang members. Asked to identify such a clique, Sini declined, saying he did not want to release investigative information.
In its written responses to Newsday, the police department said it often confirms MS-13 gang members who do not live in Suffolk County. It is not uncommon for Nassau or Queens-based MS-13, as well as out-of-state MS-13, to come in contact with our officers. In addition, inmates who identify as MS-13 and are in the countys correctional facility in Riverhead are included in our numbers.
The department said there are approximately 400 confirmed MS-13 gang members who have had contact with police during the past several years. In addition, we have another approximately 200 documented MS-13 associates.
Asked whether using a database that includes MS-13 members from outside Suffolk to produce a tally of gang members described as being in the county, as Sini did before the U.S. Senate, could be viewed as misleading, Sini replied: I dont think anything I have ever said has ever been misleading.
Nassau County Police Commissioner Patrick Ryder said the department uses a rating scale of 1 to 5 to determine membership. Criteria include having a gang tattoo, committing a gang crime and associating with gang members.
You get arrested and someone says hes a gang member and you have a gang tattoo, that might give you a point, Ryder said. Youre self-admitted, boom, you go right to the top.
Sini has declined to discuss in detail what criteria officers use to identify gang members  though clearly they dont involve confirming that a person has been beaten in. A 2016 arrest work sheet that Suffolk police provided to the U.S. Department of Justice lists 10indicators, including wearing gang colors, flashing gang signs or hanging out with known gang members, and asks officers to select two or more items.
Some of its obvious. Some of its not, Sini told The Washington Post in 2018 of identifying gang members. And this is when activists get nervous. If a kid is wearing white adidas, does that mean hes a gang member? No, of course not. But the bottom line is that I can look at a pair of sneakers on a kid right now and tell you whether its an indicator of gang membership. Thats a fact.
With Nicole Fuller, Sandra Peddie and Vctor Manuel Ramos

 
By Will Van Sant will.vansant@newsday.com 
Will Van Sant joined Newsday as a general assignment reporter in 2009. Since 2012, he has been a member of Newsday's investigations team. 


 Share on Facebook
 Share on Twitter


Comments
We're revamping our Comments section. Learn more and share your input.








Most Popular


Cops: Six people shot, injured at Bay Shore house party Dad of slain twins: 'They were beautiful souls' Popper: Landing spots for top ten free agents Luis Alvarez dies of 9/11-linked cancer at 53 Village restricts landscapers' weekend hours 





Top stories










Pride march in Manhattan to draw millions of visitors










Retired priest steps down after allegation, diocese says










Cops: Six people shot, injured at Bay Shore house party










Village restricts landscapers' weekend hours











Navy officer surprises daughter at Carle Place graduation










Trump becomes 1st sitting U.S. leader to enter N. Korea











Latest Long Island News







NY senators ask FAA nominee to prioritize aircraft noise








Retired priest steps down after allegation, diocese says








Pride march in Manhattan to draw millions of visitors








Cops: Six people shot, injured at Bay Shore house party








'Immigrants are welcome here': LIers chant at rally








Millions expected at today's NYC Pride March




Didnt find what you were looking for?
Try our new Search











Quick Links
Subscribe
Todays paper
Email newsletters
Newsday Charities
Careers
Funbook
Obituaries
Crosswords
Manage my account
Media Kit
Mobile & TV apps


Partners
News 12
am New York
Newsday Cars
Newsday Homes
Newsday Jobs
Newsday Connect
Hometown Shopper
News12 Varsity


News
Long Island
Sports
Opinion
Politics
News
Business
Towns
High school sports


More
Things to Do
Entertainment
Restaurants
Family
Travel


Privacy Policy | 
Terms of service |
Subscription terms |
Your ad choices |
RSS |
Contact Newsday |
Reprints & permissions |
Advertise with Newsday |
Sitemap |
Help

Copyright   Newsday. All rights reserved.













 







