










Shipping (fandom)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Jump to navigation
Jump to search


This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)

This article may be written from a fan's point of view, rather than a neutral point of view. Please clean it up to conform to a higher standard of quality, and to make it neutral in tone. (May 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may interest only a particular audience. Please help by spinning off or relocating any relevant information, and removing excessive detail that may be against Wikipedia's inclusion policy. (May 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

 (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Part of a series onAnime and manga
Anime
History
Industry
Original net animation
Original video animation
Fansub
Fandub
Companies
Longest series
Lists

Manga
History
International market
Mangaka
Djinshi
Scanlation
Alternative
Gekiga
Yonkoma
Publishers
Best-selling series
Longest series
Lists

Demographic groups
Children
Shnen
Shjo
Seinen
Josei

Genres
Bara
Harem
Isekai
Magical girl
Mecha
Ryona
Yaoi
Yuri

Others

People
Mitsuru Adachi
Fujio Akatsuka
George Akiyama
Hideaki Anno
Hideo Azuma
Clamp
Osamu Dezaki
Hisashi Eguchi
Tetsuo Hara
Mamoru Hosoda
Yukinobu Hoshino
Ryoichi Ikegami
Kunihiko Ikuhara
Ken Ishikawa
Shotaro Ishinomori
Ikki Kajiwara
Tomoharu Katsumata
Yoshiaki Kawajiri
Shji Kawamori
Rakuten Kitazawa
Kazuo Koike
Satoshi Kon
Masami Kurumada
Kichi Mashimo
Katsuji Matsumoto
Leiji Matsumoto
Hayao Miyazaki
Shigeru Mizuki
Hideko Mizuno
Shinji Mizushima
Daijiro Morohoshi
Tadao Nagahama
Go Nagai
Shinji Nagashima
Daisuke Nishio
Eiichiro Oda
Kyoko Okazaki
Mamoru Oshii
Rintaro
Takao Saito
Hiroshi Sasagawa
Junichi Sato
Sanpei Shirato
Masamune Shirow
Gisabur Sugii
Isao Takahata
Osamu Tezuka
Akira Toriyama
Year 24 Group
Tatsuo Yoshida

Fandom
Conventions
Clubs
Cosplay
Anime music video
Otaku
Moe
Yaoi fandom

General
Omake
Terminology
Iconography

 Anime and manga portalvte
Shipping, initially derived from the word relationship, is the desire by fans for two or more people, either real-life people or fictional characters (in film, literature, television etc.) to be in a romantic relationship. It is considered a general term for fans' emotional involvement with the ongoing development of a relationship in a work of fiction. Shipping often takes the form of creative works, including fanfiction and fan art, most often published on the internet. However, shipping can involve virtually any kind of relationship- from the well-known and established, through the ambiguous or those undergoing development, and even all the way to the highly improbable and the blatantly impossible. It can be used as a friendship term.

Contents

1 Etymology
2 Notation and terminology

2.1 Naming conventions


3 Non-conventional ships

3.1 Same-sex
3.2 Polyamory
3.3 Interspecies
3.4 Age difference
3.5 Love-hate


4 Notable fandoms

4.1 Daria fandom
4.2 Harry Potter fandom
4.3 Xena: Warrior Princess fandom


5 References


Etymology[edit]
This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (June 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The activity of fans creating relationships for fictional characters far predates the term. The first ship that became widely popular and accepted was the characters Kirk and Spock from the television show Star Trek. This began in the mid-1970s,[1] and was often referred to as Kirk/Spock, and later K/S. This is why relationships between two men are now often referred to as slash.
The actual term shipping saw its origin around 1995 by internet fans of the TV show The X-Files, who believed the two main characters, Fox Mulder and Dana Scully, should be or were engaged in a romantic relationship.[2][unreliable source?]  They called themselves relationshippers, at first;[3][4] then R'shipper,[5] 'shipper, and finally just shipper.[6]
The oldest uses of the noun ship (according to this definition of the word) and the noun shipper, as recorded by the Oxford English Dictionary, date back to 1996 postings on the Usenet group alt.tv.x-files; shipping is first attested slightly later, in 1997[7][8][9] and the verb to ship in 1998.[10]

Notation and terminology[edit]
Ship and its derivatives in this context have since come to be in wide and versatile use. Shipping refers to the phenomenon; a ship is the concept of a fictional couple; to ship a couple means to have an affinity for it in one way or another; a shipper or a fangirl/boy is somebody significantly involved with such an affinity; a Shipping war is when two ships contradict each other, causing fans of each ship to argue. A ship that a particular fan prefers over all others is called OTP for one true pairing.
When discussing shipping, a ship that has been confirmed by its series is called a canon ship or sailed ship, whereas a sunk ship is a ship that has been proven unable to exist in canon. 

Naming conventions[edit]
Various naming conventions have developed in different online communities to refer to prospective couples, likely due to the ambiguity and cumbersomeness of the Character 1 and Character 2 format. The first method deployed was using a slash, first used for Kirk/Spock. This is today mainly used for same-sex ships, fanfiction with these pairings is known as Slash fiction, due to fame of slash, the standard for hetero ships in fan fiction became a plus sign (Harry+Hermione), but! or x can also used be as separators in place of +. Additionally, name blending is often used to refer to a couple. Portmanteaus and clipped compounds are used not only to abbreviate character pairings but also to create a name for the ship itself. For example, 'Sheith' forms a clipped compound, and an abbreviated form of the complete names Shiro and Keith. 'Sculder' is an example of surnames being blended, in this case Dana Scully and Fox Mulder. These combinations of names often follow systematic phonological principles.[11]
Many fandom-specific variants exist and often use fandom-specific terminology. These often employ words that describe the relationship between characters in the context of the fictional universe and simply add the word Shipping to the end. Other terminology can be more vague, using codes and nicknames as a ship name.

Non-conventional ships[edit]
Shipping may defy classical social standards and be taboo.

Same-sex[edit]
Main article: Slash fiction
Within shipping, same-sex pairings are popular; they are sometimes known as slash and femslash. Within the anime/manga fandom, borrowed Japanese terms such as yaoi and yuri may be used. A person who supports same-sex pairings and reads or writes slash fiction may be referred to as a slasher.
The term slash predates the use of shipping by at least some 20 years. It was originally coined as a term to describe a pairing of Kirk and Spock of Star Trek, Kirk/Spock (or K/S; sometimes spoken Kirk-slash-Spock, whence slash) homosexual fan fiction.[12] For a time in the late 1970s and early 1980s, K/S was used to describe such fan fiction, regardless of whether or not they were related to Star Trek, and eventually slash became a universal term to describe all homosexual-themed fan works.
Parallel to this development, the term slash was also being used in some fandoms to denote fan fiction or other fanworks depicting sexual acts with an implied rating of NC-17, whether homosexual or heterosexual. It is likely that this is the same slash term born of the Star Trek fandom but adapted to the pornographic focus that commonly dominates fanfiction and fans works in the Kirk/Spock ship, as well as the various ships of other same-sex couples. This caused the term to spread to heterosexual ships.

Polyamory[edit]
Love triangles are commonly used as a plot device to cause conflict in the story. The easy way around this is to pair all three together, or one member with both potential romantic partners. This is not to be confused with a harem, which is usually just a single character being sought out by many others. Situations such as that may be the one to cause a polyamorous relationship. Polyamory is not always caused by love triangles, but those that don't tend to be less accepted by the fandom.

Interspecies[edit]
Interspecies, which is usually displayed in fandoms of media consisting of animals of various species, is usually not controversial until a human is paired with a non-humanoid, sapient character. It is especially controversial when between a human and an animal or furry. Some consider such pairings bestiality.

Age difference[edit]
Controversial age differences have a wide range. An elderly adult with a young adult, anyone with an immortal or slowly-ageing being, teenagers with young adults, or pedophiliacs are all part of this category. However, in anime or manga like Hetalia in which the characters are personified countries, there are large age gaps, sometimes of hundreds of years, then shipping between characters of many different ages is widely accepted in the fandom. Some shippers, of course, may be referring to the given human ages of the countries. Using these human ages gives way to a smaller age gap.

Love-hate[edit]
Romances between two characters who canonically hate each other also occur. It is often interpreted that the characters share sexual tension between each other. An example would be pairing Daniel LaRusso and his bully and rival Johnny from The Karate Kid. This is one of the most popular types of shipping.
Another example of non-conventional shipping is in the Homestuck fandom, which introduced three new shipping categories: Kismesissitude or hate-love (a deep-rooted rivalry), Moirallegiance (a deep, very powerful platonic friendship), and Auspisticism (a three-person relationship created between two would-be rivals and a peer mediator). Those in the Homestuck fandom refer to the usual romantic relationship as matespritship.[13]

Notable fandoms[edit]
Daria fandom[edit]
Daria was marked throughout its run by shipper debate, primarily over whether the title character should have a relationship with Trent Lane. A common argument was that it would signal a turning away from the more subversive aspects of Daria's character, such as bitter criticism of romantic relationships. The show's writers responded[citation needed] by having Daria develop a crush on Trent, who remained involved with his off-and-on girlfriend Monique who became a target of shipper ire. The crush ended in the third-season finale.
That episode introduced Tom Sloane, who became Jane's boyfriend, threatening Daria and Jane's friendship. Daria and Tom warmed up to each other throughout the fourth season, leading up to its finale.[14] With Jane and Tom's relationship in crisis, a heated argument between Daria and Tom led up to a kiss in Tom's car. In the TV movie Is it Fall Yet?, Daria decided to begin a relationship with Tom, and Daria and Jane patched up their friendship. This caused an uproar, and conversation turned to whether Tom was more appropriate than Trent had been. The debate was satirized by the show's writers in a piece on MTV's website.[15]
In interviews done after the series' run, series co-creator Glenn Eichler revealed that any viewer who really thought that Daria and Trent could [have] a relationship was just not watching the show we were making,[16] Tom came about because going into our fourth year... I thought it was really pushing credibility for Daria to have only had one or two dates during her whole high school career, and teaser episodes like Pierce Me were intended to provide some fun for that portion of the audience that was so invested in the romance angle. The fact that those moments were few and far between should have given some indication that the series was not about Daria's love life.[17]

Harry Potter fandom[edit]
The Harry Potter series' most contentious ship debates came from supporters of various potential pairings:

Harry Potter and his close female friend Hermione Granger
Hermione having a romantic relationship with Draco Malfoy, a primary antagonist
Hermione ending up instead with Ron Weasley, close friend of both Harry and Hermione.
Author J.K. Rowling appeared to tamp down the first possibility, stating at one point that Harry and Hermione are very platonic friends.[18]
Another alternative was of Harry ending up with Ginny Weasley, Ron's younger sister, whose obvious crush on him served as a plot-line starting in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. Rowling later commented that she had planned Ginny as Harry's ideal girl from the very beginning. In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Hermione informs Harry that Ginny has given up on him; in the subsequent Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Harry develops a crush on Ginny. Eventually, Ginny is revealed to have taken Hermione's advice to boost her self-confidence by dating other boys. 
An interview with J.K. Rowling shortly after the release of Half-Blood Prince caused significant controversy within the fandom. An interviewer stated that Harry/Hermione fans were delusional, to which Rowling responded that they were still valued members of her readership, but that there had been anvil-sized hints for future Ron/Hermione and Harry/Ginny relationships, and that Harry/Hermione shippers needed to re-read the books. This caused an uproar among Harry/Hermione shippers, some of whom claimed they would return their copies of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince and boycott future Harry Potter books.[19]
Rowling's attitude towards the shipping phenomenon has varied between amused and bewildered to frustrated. In that same interview, she stated:[20]





Well, you see, I'm a relative newcomer to the world of shipping, because for a long time, I didn't go on the net and look up Harry Potter. A long time. Occasionally I had to, because there were weird news stories or something that I would have to go and check, because I was supposed to have said something I hadnt said. I had never gone and looked at fan sites, and then one day I did and oh my god. Five hours later or something, I get up from the computer shaking slightly [all laugh]. What is going on? And it was during that first mammoth session that I met the shippers, and it was a most extraordinary thing. I had no idea there was this huge underworld seething beneath me.




The release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in July 2007 saw an epilogue, nineteen years after the events at the focus of the series, where Harry and Ginny are married and have three children.
Rowling stated in an interview in February 2014 in Wonderland Magazine that she thought that realistically Hermione and Ron had too much fundamental incompatibility, that they were written together as a form of wish fulfillment to reconcile a relationship she herself was once in. She went on to say that perhaps with marriage counseling Ron and Hermione would have been all right.[21] She later said that Harry's love for Ginny is true,[22] thereby denying any potential canon relationship between Harry and Hermione.

Xena: Warrior Princess fandom[edit]
The 19952001 action/fantasy TV series Xena: Warrior Princess produced shipping wars, with spillover from real-world debates about homosexuality and gay rights.
Shortly after the series' debut, fans started discussing the possibility of a relationship between Xena and her sidekick and best friend Gabrielle. Toward the end of the first season, the show's producers began to play to this perception by deliberately inserting usually humorous lesbian innuendo into some episodes. However, Xena had a number of male love interests as well, and from the first season had an adversarial but sexually charged dynamic with Ares, the God of War, who frequently tried to win her over as his Warrior Queen. Gabrielle had once had a male husband, whose death deeply affected her.
According to journalist Cathy Young, the quarrel between fans about a relationship between Xena and Gabrielle had a sociopolitical angle, in which some on the anti-relationship side were undoubtedly driven by bona fide bigotry, while some on the pro-relationship side were lesbians who approached the argument as a real-life gay rights struggle in which denying a sexual relationship between Xena and Gabrielle was tantamount to denying the reality of their own lives.[23] She added:





In a way, knowing that the staff paid attention to fan opinions may have made matters worse: There was an incentive for the rival groups to out-shout one another to make themselves heard. Many fans who had no appetite for these wars fled the online fandom. Storylines that were seen as betraying the subtext, particularly the Xena-Ares relationship in the fifth season, were met with intense hostility from a small but vocal group; at other times, non-subtext fans grumbled about what they saw as pandering to the pro-subtext fan base (such as several sixth-season episodes emphasizing Xena and Gabrielle's transcendent bond as soul mates).[23]




In 2000, during the airing of the fifth season, the intensity of the shipping wars was chronicled (from a non-subtexter's point of view) in an article titled The Discrimination in the Xenaverse in the online Xena fan magazine Whoosh!,[24] and numerous letters in response.[25]
The wars did not abate after the 2001 series finale. With no new material from the show itself, the debates were fueled by various statements from the cast and crew. In January 2003, Xena star Lucy Lawless told Lesbian News magazine that after watching the finale, she had come to believe that Xena and Gabrielle's relationship was definitely gay.[26] However, in the interviews and commentaries on the DVD sets released in 20032005, the actors, writers and producers continued to stress the ambiguity of the relationship, and in several interviews both Lawless and Renee O'Connor, who played Gabrielle, spoke of Ares as a principal love interest for Xena, with O'Connor commenting, If there was ever going to be one man in Xena's life, it would be Ares.
In March 2005, one-time Xena screenwriter Katherine Fugate, an outspoken supporter of the Xena/Gabrielle pairing, posted a statement on her website appealing for tolerance in the fandom:





The show existed as it did, when it did. And it enabled many to be empowered on many levels, for many walks of life. So if one definition doesn't work for you, then discard it. If it does, hold it gently. But please, allow everyone the grace to take what they need from the show and make it theirs. Let them have what moved them be it that Xena was in love with Gabrielle or Xena was in love with Ares. Please stop the arguing and name-calling and need to be right, because in the end, the show worked, it healed, it changed lives, it created new friendships, new loves and new thought, and it was bloody fantastic. And that's what matters. That it simply lived.[27]




References[edit]


^ Verba, Joan Marie (2003). Boldly Writing: A Trekker Fan and Zine History, 1967-1987, 2nd edition (PDF). pp.1819. Archived from the original (PDF) on June 12, 2018.

^ shipper. Dictionary.com Unabridged. Random House, Inc. February 14, 2018 [1995].

^ alt.tv.x-files Her *name* is *Bambi*? (use of 'relationshipper'). January 7, 1996. Retrieved September 29, 2011.

^ alt.tv.homicide Expunge cleverness (use of 'relationshipping'). January 6, 1996. Retrieved September 29, 2011.

^ alt.tv.x-files.creative NEW: TITLE 17 [1/1] (use of R'shipper). April 20, 1996. Retrieved September 29, 2011.

^ alt.tv.x-files My problem with 'anti-relationshippers'.... (use of 'shipper' in post 85). May 19, 1996. Retrieved September 29, 2011.

^ ship, n.3. Oxford English Dictionary (3rd ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2005.(Subscription or UK public library membership required.)

^ shipper, n.2. Oxford English Dictionary (3rd ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2005.(Subscription or UK public library membership required.)

^ shipping, n.2. Oxford English Dictionary (3rd ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2005.(Subscription or UK public library membership required.)

^ ship, v.2. Oxford English Dictionary (3rd ed.). Oxford University Press. September 2005.(Subscription or UK public library membership required.)

^ DiGirolamo, Cara M. (2012). The Fandom Pairing Name: Blends and the Phonology Orthography Interface. Names: A Journal of Onomastics. American Name Society: 231243.

^ Fanfic: is it right to write? from The Age Archived November 20, 2010, at the Wayback Machine

^ MS Paint Adventures. www.mspaintadventures.com. Retrieved February 16, 2018.

^ Episode #413: Dye! Dye! My Darling. Outpost Daria. August 2, 2000. Retrieved July 21, 2012.

^ DARIA Definitive Chapter 3. MTV.com. March 9, 2006. Archived from the original on November 2, 2012. Retrieved July 21, 2012.

^ DVDaria Petition Buy Daria DVDs!. The-wildone.com. March 16, 2005. Archived from the original on August 22, 2015. Retrieved July 21, 2012.

^ DVDaria Petition Buy Daria DVDs!. The-wildone.com. January 2, 2006. Archived from the original on February 25, 2012. Retrieved July 21, 2012.

^ 1999: Accio Quote!, the largest archive of J.K. Rowling interviews on the web. Accio-quote.org. October 20, 1999. Retrieved July 21, 2012.

^ If you're an obsessed Harry Potter fan, Voldemort isn't the problem. It's Hermione versus Ginny. San Francisco Chronicle. August 3, 2005. Retrieved December 19, 2010.

^ 2005: Accio Quote!, the largest archive of J.K. Rowling interviews on the web. Accio-quote.org. July 16, 2005. Retrieved July 21, 2012.

^ West, Kelly. What J.K. Rowling Actually Said About Hermione's Relationships With Ron And Harry, Cinema Blend, February 7, 2014. Retrieved on October 2, 2014.

^ I've just got back from the JK Rowling lecture and... study like hermione. Retrieved February 16, 2018.

^ a b Young, Cathy (September 1, 2005). What we owe Xena. Salon. Archived from the original on December 6, 2008.

^ The Discrimination in the XenaVerse: News and Views from the Great Divide. www.whoosh.org. Retrieved February 16, 2018.

^ Whoosh! Letters to the Editor: Issue 44 Part 1/4. whoosh.org. Retrieved February 16, 2018.

^ AUSXIP Lucy Lawless - Lesbian News 2003. lucylawless.info. Retrieved February 16, 2018.

^ Archived copy. Archived from the original on December 30, 2007. Retrieved March 6, 2009.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link)


vteFandomBy typeGenre
Fantasy fandom
Furry fandom
Science fiction fandom
Yaoi fandom
Medium-specific
Anime and manga fandom
Sports fandom
Video game fandom
Production-specific
ASOIAF fandom
Beatlemaniacs
Brony
Buffy the Vampire Slayer fandom
EarthBound fandom
Harry Potter fandom
James Bond fandom
Juggalos
MSTies
Parrotheads
Shrek fandom
Sherlockians
Star Wars fandom
Stargate fandom
Steven Universe fandom
Tolkien fandom
Trekkie
Twihard
Whovian
Demographics
Anorak
Anti-fan
Cult following
Fan
Groupie
Otaku
Sasaeng
Shipper
Stan
Tifosi
Ultras
Organizationsand events
Amateur press association
Car club
Lowrider
Cosplay
Fan club
Fan convention
Fan nicknames
Game club
Historical reenactment
Live action role-playing game
Motorcycle club
Organization for Transformative Works
Railfan
Publicationsand activities
Anime music video
Fan art
Fan edit
Fan fiction
Fan film
Fan labor
Fan mail
Fan translation
Fanac
Fangame
Fansite
Fanspeak
Fanzine
Filk music
MAD Movie
Real person fiction
Vidding
Zine
Conventions
Anime
list
Comic book
list
Furry
list
Gaming
list
Horror
Multigenre
Professional wrestling
Science fiction
list
by date of establishment
Topics
Fan loyalty
Fan service
Odagiri effect





Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Shipping_(fandom)&oldid=903737914
Categories: FandomRomanceInternet cultureHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: Archived copy as titleUse mdy dates from February 2018Articles with a promotional tone from May 2017All articles with a promotional toneWikipedia articles with style issues from May 2017All articles with style issuesWikipedia articles that are excessively detailed from May 2017All articles that are excessively detailedArticles with multiple maintenance issuesArticles that may contain original research from June 2015All articles that may contain original researchAll articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from June 2015All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2015




Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

ArticleTalk 




Variants







Views

ReadEditView history 



More





Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


DeutschEspaolEsperantoFranaisItalianoPortugusSuomiSvenska 
Edit links 





 This page was last edited on 27 June 2019, at 17:04(UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 








