








Log in
Join


Inquire About This Domain













Home
Blog
Culture
City Guide
Forums
Regions
Travels
Things To Do
What to See
Videos
 












Culture

Local Television of Ukraine
Ukraine has a large audiovisual offering. With some 322 TV broadcasting stations and 590 cable TV companies in the Ukraine there is certainly no shortage of things to watch. Ukraine's three chief TV channels are Inter, 1+1 and UT-1. These three channels receive about 90% of profits brought in by advertising and are thus the most developed. Other channels that benefit from advertising profits include Novyi Canal, ICTV and STB. The TV system in the Ukraine is run by the National TV Company of the Ukraine (NTCU) as well as 26 regional TV/Radio institutions.







Ukraines TV channel 1+1 is the largest private TV channel and the most popular. The channel broadcasts programs enjoyed by all members of the family as well as people from all backgrounds. This 24 hour channel has about 95% coverage and is found on UT-2. Channel UT-1 has the highest coverage with 98%. Programs transmitted by the NTCU can be viewed on UT-1 which broadcasts 19 hours each day. Ukrainian TV station Inter makes use of channel UT-3.
Russian channels such as ORT, NTV, TV-6 and RTR are broadcast on Ukrainian televisions through cable networks and satellite. Various areas of the country can also receive transmissions from Polish, Hungarian, Turkish and Hungarian TV. Cable and satellite also open up international channels such as Eurosport, CNN and BBC.


broadcasting 
channels 
networks 
programs 
radio 
satellite 
television 
tv 



ShareTweetShare0 Shares








Related Post




Chernihiv Oblast


Bakhmach

 Bakhmach can be regarded as a relatively new city, unlike most within Ukraine, having only made a formal beginning as a settlement when a railway line was constructed here in the 1860s and 1870s. Today, the city can be found located in the province of Chernihiv Oblast in Northern Ukraine, acting as the administrative center for the Bakhmatsky Raion or district. It also has two railway ...
 

Odessa Oblast


Balta

 Balta is a relatively small city in comparison to most that are based in the province of the Odessa Oblast, which lies in the south-west of Ukraine. Presently it acts as the administrative center for the district of the Baltsky Raion located about 200 kilometers from the capital of Odessa with a population of over 20,000 people.
 




Culture



            Architecture          



            Communication          



            Economy          



            Education          



            Events          



            Famous People          



            Flavors of Ukrainian Cuisine          



            Folk culture          



            Geography          



            History of Ukraine          



            Literature          



            Music          



            Photos          



            Public Services          



            Religion          



            Spoken Languages          



            Television          



            Video          



            Wedding Customs          





 


















Home
About Us
Add My Business
Advertising
Affiliates
Contact Us
Privacy
Report Content Violation
Sitemap
Submit an Article
Use Policy
 
Ukraine.com. All Rights Reserved. All trademarks and web sites that appear throughout this site are the property of their respective owners. No part of this site shall be reproduced, copied, or otherwise distributed without the express, written consent of Ukraine.com. This site is not affiliated with any government entity associated with a name similar to the site domain name.










We are using cookies to make the website better. By clicking Agree you are accepting Terms of Service
Got it!






Looks like you're using an ad-blocker.
This site is supported by ads. Please help us out and disable your ad-blocker.


Disable
Dismiss




Thank you! Here is how to disable your ad-blocker for this site:

Click on the AdBlock icon on the top right of your browser.
 A drop-down menu will appear.
Click Dont run on pages on this domain.
Once clicked a pop-up will appear.
Click Exclude and the page should refresh.
If necessary, refresh the page you were viewing.



Dismiss













