          Skip to Content                                                 Search              English         
Search












	
	
	

		

			
				
				
					

















































































;






    














Country Selector




Discover Adama





About Adama




Products & Services




Media




Investor Relations




Our Commitment




Work With Us




FarmTalk




Contact Us






















Ukraine  a world-beating grain producer
Arguably the best place in the world to grow grain crops, Ukraines
potential to help feed the world is increasing all the time.















Around 70% of Ukraines land area of 603,000 square kilometres is
  devoted to agriculture, with more than 55% of land used for arable
  production. And it is not just any old arable land, but some of the
  finest in the world. Nearly 60% of its arable land is the much-prized
  black soil or Chernozem, that contains a high percentage of humus or
  broken-down plant-material (up to 15% in some cases) and essential
  plant nutrients such as phosphoric acid, phosphorous and ammonia.
Pockets of this soil occur in a number of countries, but Ukraine is
  home to 30% of the worlds black soils, making it the ideal location
  to grow a large range of crops, including wheat, barley, corn, sugar
  beet, sunflower, soya beans and rapeseed. Dairy and meat production is
  also increasingly important.













OSR, West, Lvivska district, TOV Agro LV Limited












Ukraine is the sixth largest producer of corn, growing 39 million
  tonnes a year. It is also the seventh largest producer of wheat in the
  world, growing around 27 million tonnes a year. It is the worlds
  largest grower of sunflowers, regularly producing more than 10 million
  tonnes a year and it is a top ten producer of sugar beet, barley, soya
  and rapeseed.
There are 45 million Ukrainians and the country produces much more
  food than it needs to feed itself and is a major exporter of a wide
  range of crops. Improvements in production and logistics and new trade
  links and agreements, including an association agreement with the
  European Union, have helped increase Ukrainian exports. The countrys
  location on the Black Sea, also allows it to ship grain to major
  European, Asian and African markets. In 2016 Ukraine exported more
  than 40 million tonnes of grain, according to consultants
  UkrAgroConsult and they added there is the potential for the Ukraine
  to export 20 million tonnes of corn a year.













WW, South, Odeska district, Topalov V.Z.












Ukraines standing as a major agricultural producer is being driven
  by better performance. The average wheat yield is 4 tonnes/hectare, up
  a third on 20 years ago, while corn yields have increased by 150% to
  more than 6 tonnes/hectare. Greater use of modern fertiliser and crop
  protection products are helping protect crops and deliver those higher
  yields. More than 40% of Ukraines farmland is cultivated by farms
  that are more than 500 hectares, with farms of 2,500 hectares or more
  not uncommon. This compares with an average EU farm size of just 17 hectares.
Now established as a major crop player, the Ukraines agricultural
  potential is strong. There is currently the equivalent of 0.7 hectares
  of arable land per person in Ukraine. That is high, and compares with
  0.5ha/person in the USA, 0.15ha/person in Germany, 0.08ha/person in
  China and just 0.03ha/person in Egypt. The growth of Ukraines
  agricultural industry is helping to transform the country, providing
  funding for improved rural roads, infrastructure, schools and village
  life. With the worlds demand for food continuing to increase and few
  countries with so many natural advantages, Ukraines place as a major
  world agricultural power is only set to strengthen.













WW, East, Poltavska district, TOV Rost Agro













Ukraine farming facts

More than two thirds of the Ukraine can produce crops or livestock
The Ukraine is the worlds largest sunflower producer
Nearly a third of worlds coveted black soil is in the Ukraine
The Ukraine exports more than 30 million tonnes of grain a year
Ukrainian Corn yields have increased 150% in the last 20 years
Europes two largest farms  Ukrlandfarming at 654,000 hectares
    and Kernel at 615,000 hectares  are in Ukraine. Both are integrated
    holdings focusing on egg and sunflower production













Sugar beet, West, Rivnenska district, TOV Agroexpresservice

























Share





Print








Email





Facebook





Twitter





Google +





LinkedIn




















Related Articles










Cropping success in India













Mexico's cuisine takes its place at world table













Brazil responds to international food demand













A land of farming challenges and opportunities













Ukraine  a world-beating grain producer













How Farmers are shaping our world






















		Node: app-02.prd.hub.adama.com
	














ADAMA Ltd.

Country Selector



Legal

Privacy & Cookies Policy
Terms and Conditions of Use
Privacy Notice
Code of Conduct
Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption



About ADAMA
ADAMA Ltd. is one of the world's leading crop protection companies   Destinations  About ADAMA Products and Services Media and Events Investor Relations Our Commitment Work With Us #Farmtalk Contact Us     Copyright ADAMA Ltd. 2017             Cookie Information     We use cookies on this website to enhance your user experience. By browsing our website or using our mobile apps, you consent to our use of cookies and other technologies as described in our Privacy & Cookies Policy. If you wish to disable cookies on your web browser,click here.      We use cookies on this website to enhance your user experience. By browsing our website or using our mobile apps, you consent to our use of cookies and other technologies as described in our Privacy & Cookies Policy.            