
























 





U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis


Search








Menu




+ Sources & Uses



+ Topics



+ Geography





+ Tools



+ Learn About Energy



+ News







Sources & Uses


Topics


Geography


Tools


Learn About Energy


News









Petroleum & Other Liquids

Crude oil, gasoline, heating oil, diesel, propane, and other liquids including biofuels and natural gas liquids.


This Week in Petroleum


Weekly Petroleum Status Report






Natural Gas

Exploration and reserves, storage, imports and exports, production, prices, sales.


Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report


Natural Gas Weekly Update






Electricity

Sales, revenue and prices, power plants, fuel use, stocks, generation, trade, demand & emissions.
							


Electric Power Monthly


Electricity Data Browser






Consumption & Efficiency

Energy use in homes, commercial buildings, manufacturing, and transportation.


Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS)


Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS)








Coal

Reserves, production, prices, employment and productivity, distribution, stocks, imports and exports.


Quarterly Coal Report


Coal Data Browser






Renewable & Alternative Fuels

Includes hydropower, solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and ethanol.


Alternative Fuel Vehicle Browser






Nuclear & Uranium

Uranium fuel, nuclear reactors, generation, spent fuel.


Daily Status of Nuclear Outages






Total Energy

Comprehensive data summaries, comparisons, analysis, and projections integrated across all energy sources.


Monthly Energy Review


Annual Energy Review











Analysis & Projections

Monthly and yearly energy forecasts, analysis of energy topics, financial analysis, congressional reports.
							


Short-Term Energy Outlook


Annual Energy Outlook


International Energy Outlook






Markets & Finance

Financial market analysis and financial data for major energy companies.


Market Prices and Uncertainty Report


Energy & Financial Markets: What Drives Crude Oil Prices?








Environment

Greenhouse gas data, voluntary reporting, electric power plant emissions.

U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions at the State Level, 2005-2016











U.S. States

State energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.


State Energy Data System (SEDS)






Maps

Maps by energy source and topic, includes forecast maps.


U.S. Energy Mapping System


Gulf of Mexico








International

International energy information, including overviews, rankings, data, and analyses.


International Energy Statistics






Regional Dashboards & Data

Regional energy information including dashboards, maps, data, and analyses.


New England Dashboard


Southern California Daily Energy Report


Energy Disruptions











Glossary











Data Tools, Apps, & Maps

Tools to customize searches, view specific data sets, study detailed documentation, and access time-series data.




Open Data

EIA's free and open data available as API, Excel add-in, bulk files, and widgets




EIA Beta

Come test out some of the products still in development and let us know what you think!



Follow us. . .























All Reports & Publications














EIA Survey Forms

Forms EIA uses to collect energy data including descriptions, links to survey instructions, and additional information.




Email Updates

Sign up for email subcriptions to receive messages about specific EIA products




RSS Feeds

Subscribe to feeds for updates on EIA products including Today in Energy and What's New.









Today in Energy

Short, timely articles with graphics on energy, facts, issues, and trends.




Energy Explained



What is Energy?


Units & Calculators


Use of Energy


Energy & Environment


Petroleum


Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids


Natural Gas




Coal


Nuclear


Electricity


Hydropower


Biofuels: Ethanol & Biodiesel


Wind


Geothermal


Solar






For Teachers

Lesson plans, science fair experiments, field trips, teacher guide, and career corner.






Glossary











FAQs



Coal


Conversion & Equivalents


Oil/Petroleum


Diesel


Electricity


Environment




Gasoline


General Energy


Natural Gas


Nuclear


Prices


Renewables




























What's New?

Electricity Monthly UpdateJun 25, 2019Monthly Energy ReviewJun 25, 2019Electric Power MonthlyJun 25, 2019 See what's new

 


Press Room



Press Releases


Congressional Testimony


Presentations


Events


Radio Spots








Coming Up


Coming Up
Monthly Energy Review 
Natural Gas Monthly 
Monthly Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production 
More  




Featured Reports

Reports requested by congress or otherwise deemed important.


Midwest and Rocky Mountain Transportation Fuels Markets


East Coast and Gulf Coast Transportation Fuels Markets


West Coast Transportation Fuels Markets


Southern California Daily Energy Report


Effects of the Clean Power Plan









A-Z Index


A |
							B |
							C |
							D |
							E |
							F |
							G |
							H |
							I |
							J |
							K |
							L |
							M |
							N |
							O |
							P |
							Q |
							R |
							S |
							T |
							U |
							V |
							W |
							XYZ










Enter Search Term(s):








 




Projects published on Beta are not final and may contain programming errors.  They are for
		public testing and comment only. We welcome your feedback.  For final products, please visit www.eia.gov.






 Read our feedback policy. 



Project Feedback
Read what others are saying about this project.06/20/2017 - NorwayYour reports are well structured and accessible. EIA is a very valuable source for my research.
06/20/2017 - BelgiumNo doubt, your country analyses are key to our monitoring of country risks, and I expect them to be more and more useful in an energy transition context.
Thanks for your feedback!
06/19/2017 - Hong KongThis is exceedingly helpful, I cannot do without these analyses. The references are particularly useful in further understanding of the issues.
06/19/2017 - ArgentinaI belong to an ngo dealing with energy policies in Argentina, and their connections with the international public policies and energy markets. Your information is very useful for me. THANKS
06/19/2017 - North Carolina, United StatesI am a former U.S. State Department official now teaching energy courses at the university level. The EIA products are highly reliable and up-to-date.
Thanks for your feedback, and we're glad to hear that you find the information useful!
06/19/2017 - TurkeyI am a high-ranking Govt. official dealing with international relations and diplomacy. I have been resorting to your data for more than 10 years. It provides to me useful background for the structure and developments in the energy sector, both on country basis and on global scope. Useful and helpful data for my work. Thanks sincerely.
Thank you for your feedback!
05/17/2017 - ArgentinaIt keeps me updated. Very useful information.
Thank you for your feedback!
05/17/2017 - DenmarkThe info provided regularly by the EIA is of very good quality and of high value, thanks.
Thanks for your feedback!
04/16/2017 - United KingdomI am using the total electricity net consumption of U.S. But I am confused the description of the data. i.e. What is the net consumption means? Is it seasonally adjusted data? Thanks!
Thanks for your feedback! For the United States, net consumption excludes the energy consumed by the generating units. For all other countries except the United States, total electric power consumption = total net electricity generation + electricity imports - electricity exports  electricity transmission and distribution losses.
01/18/2017 - District of Columbia, United StatesClicking on the first graphic on this page zooms in way too much (the height of the graphic is 3x the size of the pop-up) and only the vertical scroll bar works. http://www.eia.gov/beta/international/regions-topics.cfm?RegionTopicID=CSR#
Thanks for bringing this to our attention, it has now been fixed.
12/19/2016 - ChinaWhere can I find the previous function that could enable to view and download selected data in tables ? Thanks.
You can find the information youre looking for in the Data tab at the top of the International Portal. From there you can use the Select Data and Select Countries tabs to select the data youd like presented. To download the data you have selected click the download icon above the table. (Data (CSV)  Table is the download youre looking for)
12/06/2016 - SpainExcelent work. A few suggestions regarding CO2 emissions: - 2012 data for Argentina, Brazil and India (at least) are missing... - there is a strange jump in Germany data between 2009 and 2010 Thanks again
Thanks for your feedback. We recently updated the CO2 Emissions data. There is now data for Argentina, Brazil, and India.
12/01/2016 - ItalyFirst of all, congrats for this huge and helpful dataset!Secondly, how can I recover the data for Biodiesel production and see them in the chart/table? The Source button seem not to do any changes.. Thanks a lot again
We have not loaded the biodiesel data onto the new website. We will be doing so shortly.
11/28/2016 - ColombiaIt would be easier, if when using metric units, instead of writing billion kWh you would specify whether this is 10^9 (as in english speaking countries) or 10^12 (everywhere else). Am I correct to assume 1 billion kW equal 1 GW?
Thanks for your feedback! The Unit of Measure Equivalents EIA uses can be found here:
11/19/2016 - Missouri, United StatesInternational energy - consumption per capita years 2010 and 2011 seem wildly out of line with the previous years. US goes for 308 to 69,595 in 2010? Seems incorrect
Thanks for your feedback! We have not updated Per Capita Consumption data yet; this is in work.
11/11/2016 - Indiana, United StatesI very much liked the previous version where excel downloaded data was much easier to work with. With this new version and the way it generates excel files when we download data, it takes me a huge amount of time to effectively use a downloaded file.
We are always looking for ways to improve our website, and appreciate your feedback.
11/11/2016 - Virginia, United StatesPer capita consumption data for 2011 by continent is coming up strangely. For global consumption of 529 Quad BTUs, it's showing per capita 9.5 trillion BTUs (which would assume a world pop. ~56,000).
Thanks for your comment! We have not updated Per Capita Consumption data yet; this is in work.
11/02/2016 - IndiaHi, great work with the interface. However, there are parts of the database that we could access in the previous version, that we are unable to access here (Imports and exports of petroleum crude and products, consumption of renewable energy in QTBTU among others). It would be great if these issues were cleared up asap so as to improve usability and access to data. Thank you!
Thanks for your feedback! In order to make the imports data easier to find, a Featured View was created for Petroleum OECD Imports. Exports data is currently bring validated and will be posted to the website once approved. Imports/Exports data for Coal, Electricity and Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids can be found by filtering within the Select Data button.
The energy consumption data can be found here: 
10/24/2016 - IndiaHi, We are unable to download crude oil and refined petroleum products imports by country. Kindly help.
Thank you for your inquiry. At this time, we are not sure when (or if) we will include country-level data on oil/petroleum imports and exports in our International Energy Statistics.
A potential non-EIA source for that data that you could try is: www.iea.org
10/13/2016 - IranCan you please create new links for your new things? I just saved a link for total renewable electricity net consumption, every time I just use this link address, but this time because of your update, it was not found. It makes me confused, I need this data in excel format, I search all of your website, I did not find this variable data/
Thanks for your feedback! Renewable electricity consumption is assumed to equal to renewable electricity generation, so that variable was not added to the beta site. This can be revisited so as to avoid confusion.
10/11/2016 - New York, United StatesThe old system to download data was much easier - why fix something that worked well. I saw a comment that person can download all countries - I can not find that. Can you please direct me to it - thanks
When on the Data Tab of the website: http://www.eia.gov/beta/international/data/browser/#/?vs=INTL.44-1-AFRC-QBTU.A&cy=2013&vo=0&v=H&start=1980&end=2014
Click on the Select Countries button in green. - Click on All Countries on the left. Click Select All on the Right. Click on the green check mark button in the top right corner. Click on the green Download button on the top right side of the data table
10/01/2016 - Texas, United StatesI'm just curious why the data period ends at 2013 - it's now Oct 2016 - seems like there should be data at least thru 2015. Has the beta site been replaced? Am I just in the wrong place?
The data on the Beta website was recently updated and validated through 2013. The team will be working to gather, validate, and publish 2014 and 2015 in the coming months.
09/28/2016 - JapanI'm using the data for elec. generation (e.g. PV or wind) for my own research. Before this version, the data were down to 3 to 4 decimal places. However, only 1 decimal seems to be shown in Beta. It would be more useful and helpful for research if some options for more decimal place were added or units could be modified (e.g. other than billion kWh for generation). Thanks.
Thanks for your feedback! We are currently working on updating the number of decimal places for more specificity.
09/13/2016 - NorwayHi, this gives me a very interesting picture of the global energy sector. Thank you.
You're welcome, and thanks for your feedback!
08/29/2016 - Texas, United StatesThe organization of downloaded CSV data makes the data almost unusable. All headers for each country are shown as having equal value to the country itself so the data cannot be sorted without losing the country identification. I downloaded All Countries>Crude Oil and Lease Condensate Production. Column B makes every heading equal i.e., the country and various information headings. It is unfortunate that a download cannot be directly used but it is frustrating that as an expert Excel user I cannot easily determine a way to organize the data in a way that makes it usable. Thanks, Art Berman
Sorry you are having trouble with the data download, please try the following. Once you select Countries/Select data but before you initializing the download click the tab for Sources/Activities. This will change the way the data is displayed/downloaded and should solve your problem.
08/16/2016 - Texas, United StatesReally helpful and easy to use.
Thanks!
08/12/2016 - United KingdomExcellent. This is much easier to navigate and use.
We're glad you like it!
07/27/2016 - BrazilExcelent job! What does the other liquids in Total Petroleum and Other Liquids Production 2015 include?
Other Liquids includes biodiesel, ethanol, liquids produced from coal, gas, and oil shale, Orimulsion, and other hydrocarbons
07/18/2016 - IndiaVery useful data. However, it would be great if you could mention how much of India's energy (especially oil and gas) imports come by sea, in order to get a clearer picture of India's energy imports.
Thanks for your feedback, we'll look into making those changes.
06/23/2016 - United KingdomI was using your import figures for china i.e. the pie chart for percentage world wide imports 2014 and when added up it is 99% rather than 100.
Thanks for your feedback. The total may not equal 100% due to independent rounding.
06/22/2016 - JapanMore new information will be helpful to understand global enegy situation.
We're glad you like it.
06/15/2016 - EcuadorSrs, I am probably one of the thousands readers that are eager to learn of the new information produced by EIA. Excellent, by the way. OPEC report on revenue is very informative. Our governments always keep us in the dark. Why???. Thank you
06/07/2016 - United KingdomAmazing data, thank you very much!
05/25/2016 - ChinaVery helpful information!! Well researched, clear figures and graphs.
05/18/2016 - California, United StatesThere is no data available for the petroleum or natural gas reserves in the U.S.A.
EIA has published data for both series' through 2015.
05/01/2016 - AustraliaIt is incredibly frustrating trying to view the data you want. Today I simply want to view the imports of crude oil in bbld in South Africa. BTU is a completely unhelpful metric.
You can use the 'Change Units' control to adjust from BTU to U.S. Customary system, Metric, or another measurement option of your choosing.
04/22/2016 - California, United States2014?? Where are the production numbers of 2015 and up 4/22/16?
Production numbers for 2015 and 2016 will be added once they are finalized.
04/03/2016 - United KingdomFantastic resource. Very well researched, clear and easy figures and graphs. Well organised too. Incredible useful!
03/08/2016 - District of Columbia, United StatesWhat a handy tool, thanks!
03/06/2016 - New Jersey, United StatesWell organized information with easy access.
02/15/2016 - West Virginia, United StatesVery helpful information!
02/14/2016 - ChinaI like the old version which had a country brief.
All countries with analyses can be accessed by clicking the analysis tab.
02/09/2016 - Saudi ArabiaExcellent work for the country analysis. However, i'm struggling to cite the South African country analysis report....would appreciate if you could sent it
You can download PDF files for all of the countries with a detailed energy analysis. (Click the read full analysis link and the downloadable PDF is at the top left of your screen labeled full report) 
01/30/2016 - SpainYour website is very useful for me as a teacher, particularly the world thematic maps.My students like it as well. Thanks a lot!
01/22/2016 - VietnamUseful data for my work. Thanks sincerely.
01/04/2016 - CanadaBest government website ever
01/02/2016 - TurkeyGoood
12/29/2015 - Michigan, United StatesWe use your 'Total Electricity Net Consumption' data for comparing countries for a market potential index we create each year. Data in the previous years was available up to 5 decimal places. However, data is available with only 1 decimal place this year (through the beta interface) and comparing countries became a challenge because there are too many countries with the same values now. Is there a way to download the full data-set with all the decimal points available?
Thank you for contacting EIA. We are currently working on updating the number of decimal places for more specificity.
12/22/2015 - United KingdomBrilliant bit of website, made my life a thousand times easier!
12/06/2015 - ArgentinaExcellent!!
11/29/2015 - MalaysiaMay I know if there is a latest write up on Malaysia year 2015. The one I have obtained is 2014.
Country analyses are updated on a periodic basis, the 2014 analysis for Malaysia is the most current.
11/21/2015 - Virginia, United StatesTerrific article on Brazil...thank you.
11/20/2015 - EgyptI note that the analysis of energy in Israel in this site is not covered in details as other countries?
You are correct, not all countries, including in this case Israel, have detailed analysis briefs.
11/17/2015 - Michigan, United StatesGreat PDF file on Canada's energy and trade success! Exactly what I needed to bring me up to speed for my research on Michigan and on the Midwest - thanks! (Mike at McGuire Research)
11/15/2015 - California, United StatesWhy are your maps so hard to copy and past? It should be easy to get a nice graph of yours.
Our maps and graphs are available for download, and are also easily embeddable for use on external websites, blogs, and newsletters. Simply click the 'Download' button adjacent to a map or graphic and you will be presented with a variety of format options.
11/12/2015 - Alabama, United StatesI work with Excel spreadsheets. I looked at your Excel download function and examined your Excel spreadsheet. It appears that if I am going to load the data into my spreadsheets, I will have to do one line at a time, each country individualy.
EIA offers an Excel Add-in that will allow you to simplify your spreadsheet work. The EIA Excel Add-in can be found here.
10/06/2015 - United KingdomThe analysis on South Korea was a very interesting and worthwhile read. Great to see such an informed analysis presented with tables to illustrate it
09/30/2015 - FranceExcellent interface, very very efficient. Having global data is definitely a plus. Too bad data goes up to 2012 and does not include 2013 and 2014. Comments coming from an IT manager used to major systems with large databases.
Thank you for your feedback! We are constantly adding new data series' to our database, data for current years will be added as it is available.
09/12/2015 - IndiaI always rely on data published by EIA to make various comparisons and analysis reports. This tool makes my job much easier.
09/11/2015 - RussiaAmazing tool, thank you for such a useful application for data export .
08/16/2015 - Colorado, United StatesSo... Pretty! Really appreciate you guys going the extra mile with your data tools, this makes my research so much more effective. You guys have been an utter joy to work with (not a typical experience for government bureaucracy), and this new beta is the icing on the cake. Thanks for the hard work you have put in to make this information clear and understandable! Looking forward to seeing what you guys cook up in the future.
06/09/2015 - District of Columbia, United StatesWhy can't I download any of this to spreadsheets? Why can't I download multiple years?
You can download all of the international data as spreadsheets. To do this, select the country, or countries, and fuel source(s) you would like to see data for and click the download button. (Directly beneath the animation controls) This will give you the option to download the displayed data in a variety of ways, including as a spreadsheet (.csv file). Data for all available yearsis included as the default.
06/01/2015 - NigeriaDear Sirs, I have been using your data for almost 20 yrs, in particular the international Petroleum data. I like the granularity provided, by country by month. Unfortunately it seems from the beta site, that I can only access the annual data and only download as a CSV file. Is that correct? regards Casper
The monthly data is being migrated to the new tool shortly. In the meantime, that data can be accessed via the Legacy IES link at the bottom of any of the Data Browser pages, or by visitinghttp://www.eia.gov/cfapps/ipdbproject/IEDIndex3.cfm
05/31/2015 - Virginia, United StatesWhere are the country pages!!!? I am writing a book chapter and referenced your site, where I found terrific info on India and Japan several months ago. Unfortunately, it appears you deleted those pages. Why?
The country pages can be accessed by clicking the Select Country/Region dropdown, and also by clicking the Analysis tab.
05/27/2015 - AntarcticaI really love this beautiful webpage! It is very wonderful:) I love learning about this stuff!
05/25/2015 - I need to access country profiles in .pdf form.
You can download PDF files for all of the countries with a detailed energy analysis. (Click the read full analysis link and the downloadable PDF is at the top left of your screen labeled full report) 
05/20/2015 - New York, United StatesThank you for all the info and help over the past few years. Before the layout, I was able to find annual #s of net exports of petro for each country, and now I have no idea where it is.
Click the Data tab and then use the Select Data and Select Countries buttons to choose which fuel source(s) and which countries you'd like to see the data for. 
05/20/2015 - New York, United StatesI am looking for bbl and bcf , not Btu , can you tell me where to look for country's oil bbl and gas in bcf? Thanks
The information youre requesting can still be found in the new International Portals Data Browser. (The data tab)
Once on the data page clicking the Select Data button allows you to choose which energy source is shown, allows you to specify what data you want to retrieve, and allows you to adjust the unit of measurement based on your preferences.
05/20/2015 - CanadaWhere can I find the original spreadsheets with the country data for Crude + Condensate and the one for all liquids. The new look is too complicated for me. The spreadsheet is more easily used for good analysis.
The information youre requesting can be found in the new international portals Data Browser which is accessed by clicking the data tab or clickinghttp://www.eia.gov/beta/international/data/browser
Once on the data page you can use the Select Countries button to select which countries youd like to see data series for. (You can also select all countries)
Likewise, clicking the Select Data button allows you to choose which energy source(s) is shown, and allows you to specify what data you want to retrieve. (Consumption, production, etc.)
05/19/2015 - Texas, United StatesWould like a link to the pdf of the entire country analysis brief.
Thanks for writing in.  If the country has a full write-up (a full brief, more than just bullets), we do offer a PDF.  See Saudi Arabia (http://www.eia.gov/beta/international/analysis.cfm?iso=SAU) as an example.  We typically don't offer pre-baked PDFs if we just have bullet notes (what we call Country Analysis Notes)
If you are looking to PDF other sections of the site (the country overview page, for example), you can use any number of free, open source packages to create a PDF. They typically use your computer's print function, but instead of using a printer, they produce a PDF on your computer's hard drive.

 

Feedback Policy
Policy for
				public
				 posting of feedback submitted during beta testing of EIA experimental web products:

User feedback of beta products is moderated. EIA will review all feedback submissions within one business day.
EIA reserves the right to edit feedback for brevity and grammar prior to posting.
Feedback submissions that use profanity, offensive language, or fail to address the product undergoing beta testing will not be posted.
Personally identifiable information, such as full names or email addresses, will be redacted from the published feedback.
Constructive criticism, suggestions, and kudos are welcome.

 Thanks for helping us to make EIA's products better!


 
Show Feedback
Hide Feedback



 WorldUkraine			
Select Country / Region 

Choose a Country or Region
				Browse:
					Alphabetically |
					By Region




 indicates countries/regions with analysis







Clear search text





 Overview

Data




Petroleum
					Monthly:
					Production|
					Consumption

					Annual:
					Production|
					Consumption


Natural Gas
Production|
					Consumption


Coal
Production|
					Consumption


Electricity
Generation|
					Consumption


Hydrocarbon Gas Liquids
Production|
					Consumption


Primary Energy
Production|
					Consumption


see more




Analysis
 



Rankings








Last Updated: January 2017
Overview


Map of Ukraine



Ukraine is an important transit country for supplies of oil and natural gas from Russia to countries throughout Europe.
According to BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2016, coal made up the largest component of Ukraine's primary energy consumption in 2015 at 34%, followed by natural gas at 30% and nuclear at 23%. Only a relatively small portion of the country's total energy consumption is accounted for by petroleum and other liquid fuels (10%) and renewable energy sources (2%).
	Total energy consumption in Ukraine decreased by about 16% in 2015, largely due to a decline in industrial output. Despite some gains in energy efficiency in the industrial sector, Ukraine's economy is one of the most energy-intensive in Europe. Ukraine's economic growth is hindered by a lack of investments for energy infrastructure modernization, low energy prices for consumers, unstable energy supplies, and inefficiencies in energy consumption.
Historically, Ukraine has relied on natural gas from Russia for a majority of its domestic natural gas consumption. As a result of political tensions with Russia, in recent years, Ukraine has sought to diversify its supplies. From 2014 to 2015, natural gas from Russia decreased from 74% to 37% of total Ukrainian imports, while natural gas imports from Europe increased from 26% to 63%, according to Naftogaz, Ukraine's state oil and gas company. The reversal of natural gas flows on pipelines linking Ukraine to Slovakia, Poland, and Hungary increased the natural gas imports from Europe to Ukraine.

Petroleum and other liquids

In 2015, Ukraine consumed approximately 236,000 barrels per day (b/d) of liquid fuels, down from about 300,000 b/d in 2010, and produced only 60,000 b/d of crude oil and other liquids  This supply deficit has caused Ukraine to depend on crude oil and oil product imports primarily from Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and Lithuania to meet the remainder of its demand. Crude oil imports, which are sourced primarily from Russia and which supply Ukraine's sole operating refinery, the Kremenchug facility, have dwindled in the past few years, leaving the refinery to rely on domestic production. In 2015, Ukraine imported virtually all of its crude oil from Kazakhstan instead and plans to increase imports from Kazakhstan to about 40,000 b/d. The Ukrainian government announced in April 2016 that it plans to ban imports of oil products from Russia.
As with natural gas, Ukraine serves as a transit country for Russian oil exports. The 400,000 b/d southern leg of the Druzhba oil pipeline transports Russian crude oil through Ukraine to supply most of the oil consumed by Slovakia, Hungary, Czech Republic, and Bosnia.

Natural gas

In 2015, Ukraine consumed almost 1.3 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of natural gas, a decrease of 14% from 2014. Domestic production accounted for 54% of total consumption while the remainder of natural gas supply was met through imports from Europe and Russia. Russia has historically supplied a majority of Ukraine's natural gas, but beginning in 2015, Ukraine has significantly reduced its direct import of Russian natural gas and instead has received natural gas shipments from Europe. Much of the gas imported from Europe, however, originates in Russia and is brought into Ukraine via reverse flows from central and eastern European countries.
Recent discoveries of shale gas deposits in Ukraine have the potential to provide the country with another means to diversify its natural gas supplies away from Russia, but regional conflict has hampered further exploration and development in the short term. After negotiating multi-billion dollar deals both Chevron and Shell, ended natural gas contracts in Ukraine in 2014, citing instability in the region.
Ukraine's geographic position and proximity to Russia explain its importance as a natural gas and petroleum liquids transit country. In 2015, European countries received 5.4 Tcf of Russian natural gas, an increase of about 9% from the previous year. Numerous countries in the region receive Russian natural gas partly or exclusively via Ukraine, including Austria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia,  and Turkey.
	Two major pipeline systems carry Russian natural gas through Ukraine to Western Europe - the Bratstvo (Brotherhood) and Soyuz (Union) pipelines. The Bratstvo pipeline is Russia's largest pipeline to Europe. It crosses from Ukraine to Slovakia and splits into two directions to supply northern and southern European countries. The Soyuz pipeline links Russian pipelines to natural gas networks in central Asia and supplies additional volumes to central and northern Europe. A third major pipeline through Ukraine delivers Russian natural gas to the Balkan countries and Turkey. In the past, disputes between Russia and Ukraine over natural gas supplies, prices, and debts have resulted in interruptions to Russia's natural gas exports through Ukraine, with the latest one occurring in 2014.
Russia has indicated it plans to proceed with construction of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which would bypass Ukraine in transporting natural gas to Europe and is expected to be complete in 2019.

Coal

Coal production in Ukraine decreased by 37% from 2014 to 2015, primarily because much of Ukraine's coal is located in contested territory in the eastern part of the country. As a result, Ukraine faced significant coal deficits, which led to power outages and costly imports from Russia. Ukraine began to reduce dependency on Russian coal imports in 2015 by diversifying supplies to include greater amounts from the United States, Australia, Kazakhstan, and others.

Electricity

	In 2015, Ukraine generated a total of 163 billion kilowatthours (kWh) of gross electricity, an 11% decrease from 2014. The country is heavily dependent on nuclear energyits fifteen reactors generated over 50% of the total electric power supply in 2015. Fossil fuels, particularly coal and natural gas, have traditionally composed a substantial portion of electric power generation, whereas contributions from renewable and other sources have been marginal.
The Ukrainian government has proposed to meet at least half of future electricity demand with nuclear power. In the past, most of Ukraine's nuclear fuel supplies have come from Russia, but Energoatom (Ukraine's national nuclear generation company) expected to procure 40% of Ukraine's nuclear fuel in 2016 from Westinghouse.












About EIA
Open Data
Press Room
Careers
Contact Us



U.S. Energy Information Administration1000 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20585




Sources & Uses
Petroleum
Coal
Natural Gas
Renewable
Nuclear
Electricity
Consumption
Total Energy


Topics
Analysis & Projections
Environment
Markets & Finance
Today in Energy

Geography
States
Countries
Maps


Tools
A-Z Index
All Reports & Publications
Data Tools, Apps, and Maps
EIA Survey Forms
EIA Beta


Policies
Privacy/Security
Copyright & Reuse
Accessibility


Related Sites
U.S. Department of Energy
USA.gov


Stay Connected
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Flickr
LinkedIn
Email Updates
RSS Feeds








