










geomap.com.ua




    Geography 


Course in geography, I and Ukraine, 3-4 ClassGuide Kiev for students, Grade 5General Geography, Grade 6The geography of continents and oceans, Grade 7Physical Geography of Ukraine, Grade 8Social and Economic Geography of Ukraine, Grade 9Course of socio-economic geography of the world, grade 10Course of economic and social geography of the world, 10-11 classAutonomous Republic of CrimeaRegions of Ukraine 



    World History 


The integrated course on the history of Ukraine and World History, Grade 6World History - History of the Middle Ages (V-XV centuries), Grade 7  -   (XVI-XVIII ), 8 World History - Modern History (1789-1914 years), Grade 9World History - The latest period (1914-1939 years), Grade 10Digital Atlas of World History, Grade 11 



    History of Ukraine 


Ukraine History, Grade 5. Find a map of the answersUkraine History, Grade 7History of Ukraine (XVI-XVIII centuries), Grade 8History of Ukraine (the second half of the XVIII - beginning of XX century), Grade 9History of Ukraine (1914-1939 years), Grade 10History of Ukraine (1939 - 2005 years), Grade 11 





 English 





                  




                  




                  










Social and Economic Geography of Ukraine, Grade 9






 25. Food industry (textbook)











TOPIC 17.FOOD INDUSTRY OF UKRAINE

 25.Food industry
Sectoral STAFF. Food industry is one of the leading sectorsindustry in Ukraine. It second only to steel industry, giving more than 17%Industrial production in Ukraine. Food industry has a complex structure bringing together over 20industries that produce food. The main among them are sugar,boroshnomel-but, cereal, oil and fat, bakery, alcohol, fruitfruits, fish,dairy, meat, wine, confectionery, brewing, Tobacco et al. Food industryvery closely related to agriculture which is the main supplierraw for her. It is not surprising that the spatial organization of foodindustry is largely determined by specific features of ruraleconomy. Decisive role in placing the food industry enterprisesplay raw materials and consumer. Those who use little Transportableraw materials (perishable) or a high numberbone material, tend to it (sugar,oil, fish, fruitsfruits, dairy, etc.).. Areas where coststransporting the finished product than the transportation of raw materials, performancetuyutsya consumer(Confectionery, bakery, brewery, dairy, etc.).. And for raw materials and consumeroriented meat, flourMielno, cereal, tobacco and other industries.


Fig. Food industry

Flour, cereal,Bakery and pasta FIELD. These branches play an important role in providingsuch kinds of foods like flour, cereals, bread, pasta and more. Theirwaste used to produce feed. Flour, cerealswooden branchacquired development in Ukraine in the late nineteenth century. The basic principlesplacement of its business is raw materials and consumer, that is, they are placed ingrain growing areas and in cities. Largest centersmilling industry is Kyiv,Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, Odessa, Nikolaev, Kiev. Powerful center fieldconcentrated in large cities, sea and river ports, railway terminals. 
Baking branch acquired industrial scaledevelopment in the early twentieth century. Shelf life of fresh bread tolimited. This causes the placement of the baking industryas close as possible to the consumer. Dimensions bakery-dependent populationsettlements. In large cities, bakeries much stronger, in addition, theymay be several. 
Pasta branch are relatively youngin the food industry in Ukraine.
It focuses mainly on the consumer. Major center of macaroniindustry is Kyiv, Kharkiv,Kiev, Odessa, inc.
Confectionery branch developed sincethe late nineteenth century. Even then, Ukraine has 48 factories, however, low.Now confectionery industry has become large scale development. Leadingfield centers are Lviv (Torch) Kyiv (Roche), Trostyanets (Kraft Jacobs Sushard Ukraine), Kharkiv, Vinnitsa, Zhitomir, Donetsk (A.V.K). Most of confectionerydeveloping industry in Ukraine to attract foreign investment. 
Sugar industry. Sugar industry is one ofoldest and most important sectors in Ukraine. Back in the nineteenth century. it reachedlarge scale development, and Ukraine was one of the largest producers of sugarin the world. 
Sugar industry in placing focuses onraw materials, as to produce 1 ton of sugar to 7 tons of processed beets.Now tsukroburyakova zone covers 19 regions. But the largest concentrationenterprises from Sugar Industry established in soil is where concentrated62% beet crops. There are over hundreds of refineries and produced2 / 3 sugar country. The leading producers of sugar in Ukraine Vinnitsa, Poltava, Cherkasy, Kiev,Ternopil, Kharkiv region. In the sugar industry wasteare alcohol, vitamins, yeast factories.
Until recently, the production of sugar Ukraineranked first onin Europe. Markets its products were basedtion, countriesformer Soviet Union. Today, these markets are almost completelyve been lost due to underminingdomestic sugar (high material and energy intensity, and therefore costproduction). Thirdplants in Ukraine (there are more than 190) were built in the middle of the nineteenth century.Most of these companies have very worn basic funds and smallpower. Thus, the average sugar factory Ukraine may rework the season2,5 tons of beets, while in the EU - 7,5 thousand tons of excessively longare in Ukraine and sugar season, which lasts 130 days, resulting in the losssugar beets. th the volume of production in the past declined over the decadethan 2 times (for 1990-2003). Many sugar factories idle ordismantled. 
Oil and fat INDUSTRY. Oil and fat industry producesbutter, margarine, mayonnaise and other products. It is a raw material for sunflower seeds, rapeseed,soybean, corn, rytsyna. About 90% of oil in Ukraine produced from sunflower.Enterprises sector posted repompously in regions where the crop (To produce 1 ton of oilto 3.5 tons of seeds). This industry comprises over 30large enterprises and numerous small oliyen that are located inrural settlements. Mostthem - in DniproPetrovsky, Zaporozhye, Kirovograd, Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Total oil production in recent decadeshas almost doubled. The major oil production centers are Dnepropetrovsk, Mariupol, Zaporozhye,Poltava, Odesa, Kherson. 
The industry. This industryEnterprisescanning industry is in all regions Ukraine, butespecially lots of them in southern and Podolsk areas in Transcarpathia. Leading centers are Simferopol, Odesa, Kherson, Izmail,Kamenets Podolsky. 
Starch and syrupindustryfocuses on raw materials. Enterprises of the industry dedicated to growing areaspotatoes, so are mostly located in northern Ukraine. The largestmanufacturers of starch is Chernihiv and Zhytomyr regions. 
Wine and alcohol INDUSTRY. Raw material base for wine Industryare grapes, fruits and berries. Industry tends to growing areas of raw materials,as the best grapes term is 5 years. Plantsrecyclable materials and wine bottling and can be placed in areasconsumption of this product. Most wineriesplaced in Crimea, Odessa,Mykolaiv, Kherson, Transcarpathianareas. Grape wine brands Massandra, Inkerman, KoktebelGold beam, Shustov, Shabo have a worldwide recognition. Over the pastyears in Ukraine increased production of quality wines and brandy. Leadingcenters are making branch Massandra,Alushta Bakhchisaraj Izmail, Odessa, Mukachevo.
Alcohol industry orientedfor raw materials. Alcohol use more than 150 industries.Raw material base for production of alcohol is molasses, sugar defective, grains,potatoes. Usually, alcohol plants located in small towns.Most alcohol in Ukraine are produced from waste sugar industry.The leading producers are his Cherkassy,Vinnitsa, Kiev, Chernihiv, Zhytomyr. In some yearsUkraine has taken 3 place in the world (after Brazil and Russia) in terms of productionalcohol. 
Alcoholic beverage industry is the mainconsumer of alcohol. Branch to the end user. Leading centersalcoholic beverage industry is Nemiroff,Kyiv, Simferopol, Odessa, Chernihiv.
Production beer and softBeverages gained considerable spread in Ukraine. The largest centers of industryis Kyiv (Obolon, Dewdrop) Chernihiv, Zaporozhye (Center) Kharkiv(Rohan), Mirgorod, Brovary (Coca Cola)et al.  


Fig. At JSCObolon, Kyiv

Dairy Industry.
 dairy industry distinguish dairy, cheese,Dairy and dairy industry.Hosted enterprise field inlarge and small cities throughout Ukraine. Almost all regional centersUkraine are dairies or molokokombinaty.
Creamery and creamery branch is verysyrovynnomistkymy because their companies gravitate to areas of milk production.In recent years the total production of butter and cheese down.Dairy industry specialized,primarily in production of milk. Dairies produceproducts that are perishable, that determines their customer orientation.
Molokokonservna industry is concentrated insmall towns and townships, which tend to areas with developedDairy cattle (Bakhmach, Balta et al.).
Meat and fishery development. Processing of productsLivestock are engaged in the food industry as meat, milk, oil, cheese and others.
 Meatindustry providespopulation of fresh and frozen meat, meat products, sausageproducts meat con-serv more. Instructure of the food industry also has a leading position. It oriented and raw materialsand the consumer. Her business is in all regions, the largest meat-packing plants knowtomers in largecities (Kyiv, Kharkiv, Poltava, Odessa, Luhansk, Lviv). Total meat production in recent years(1990-2003) fell more than 5 times. At the same time reducing productionsausage is not as significant. 
Fish industry developed,especially in port cities (vastopol Kerch Odesa, Odessa, Illichivsk, Ochakov, Mariupol et al.). Many products give ship-factories thatare in the fishing areas. 
For food industry are several inconsistenciesing processingcapacity of the existing raw material base, so many the products are not processed.Necessary construction osnaschetheir latest equipment small businesses that couldto speedcoto prefer high-quality, competitive products. 

Remember
Food industrybrings together dozens of industries that produce food.
Major branchesfood industry in Ukraine is the sugar, oil and fat, flour, cereal, meat, milk.
The foodindustry in Ukraine have widespread deployment. A number of commodity sectorsorientation have zonal distribution under cultivationagricultural raw materials.


Questions and Tasks 
1. WhatFood industry is best developed in Ukraine?
2. Describefeatures of distribution of the food industry of Ukraine, which employedprocessing of grain and industrial crops.
3. Describefood industry, which involved the processing of animal products. What are the principlesplacement of the dairy industry.
4. What do you think causes the decrease in production 
produstuffs goods in Ukraine?

Practical work in September
1. Analyze statistical data on productionagricultural products in Ukraine.
2. Write a conclusion about the dynamics offood per capita in recent years:

production of whichfood products is steadily increasing ??????????????????????????????????;

production of whichfood increased, and then diminishing(Indicate the year of peak production )??????????????????????????????????;

production of whichfood is steadily declining ????????????


Table. Manufacture of foodgoods per capita (Kg)




GroceryProducts


Years





2000


2001


2002


2003


2004


2005


2006


2007




Meat 


8,1


6,8


9,5


11,5


11,1


13,2


16,3







Chips 


3,6


3,4


4,3


5,7


7,0


6,6


6,4







Sunflower oil


19,8


19,2


20,3


26,3


28,3


29,3


43,2







Cheese 


1,4


2,2


2,7


3,6


4,7


5,8


4,6







Butter


2,8


3,2


2,7


2,9


2,4


2,5


2,2







Bakery


50,1


50,3


48,9


48,8


48,6


48,1


46,0







Sugar


36,2


40,0


33,6


52


45,2


45,4


55,4










  24. Light industry
 26. Overview of agriculture 



 








