








Skip to Main Content
Quick Start

Hello. Get Started with UPS.







Track
                                 


Tracking NumbersGo





Ship
Close


Quote
Close


Locations
Close





SearchMenu

Close
Back


Tracking
Tracking


Track Shipments

Track & Tracking History
Manage Home Deliveries: UPS My Choice



More Tracking Options

Manage Inbound/Outbound Shipments:Quantum View

Explore All Tracking

Find peace of mind with the details.UPS tracking solutions show the progress of your shipment every step of the way, across town or around the world.
Learn More




Shipping
Shipping


New Shipments

Create a Shipment:Package & Freight
Calculate Time & Cost
Schedule a Collection



More Shipping Options

Service Guide
Order Supplies

Explore All Shipping

Ship just a few times a week? No Problem.We took the guesswork out, and put the easy in.
Try It Now




Services
Services


By Type

Shipping
Tracking
International Trade
Contract Logistics
Integrating UPS Technology



By Size

Logistics Business Solutions for Mid-to-Large Businesses



By Industry

Healthcare
See All

Explore All Services

Returning better customer service.Generate customer loyalty with speedy and hassle-free returns.
Simplify Your Returns






Customer Service
Customer Service

Help & Support Centre


Email Us
Call Us
See All Contact Options





Log In
Sign Up
Locations
Ukraine - English

Ukraine - English
-
  P

Select Another Country or Territory


My Profile

Log In
Sign Up


Profile Overview
My Information
Addresses
Payment Options
Preferences





SearchGo

SearchGo















Home > 
Services > 
Healthcare > 
Storage and Distribution








Storage and Distribution




Share


Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Email
Close

















Expand your capabilities. Expand your possibilities.

When you partner with UPS, you'll gain the human capital, expertise, global infrastructure and proven solutions to make possibilities a reality. Expand your global footprint on a compressed timeline. Scale capacity up or down to meet market demand  without the overhead and global workforce burden.
And imagine when you're free to focus on your core business, how you can fill that immediately available global operation with new or larger inventories of life-saving discoveries.
Request More InformationOpen the link in a new window









Who This Is For

Mid- and large-scale healthcare firms including pharmaceutical, biopharma, medical device and medical/surgical supply, that have complex product shipping and distribution requirements.











Instant infrastructure  healthcare competent, healthcare compliant.The healthcare industry is highly competitive, so an optimised supply chain can be a major point of differentiation. UPS has built our extensive storage and distribution network around healthcare business needs. Empower your supply chain performance with our 1.8 million square metres of healthcare-compliant warehouse space across more than 50 worldwide healthcare-dedicated facilities. Capitalise on our turnkey inventory and distribution services to rapidly and strategically respond to opportunities, market changes and global health needs.
Global distribution facilities, an experienced global talent pool, established processes, integrated transportation and management technology  all here so you can do more and go further.




Warehousing Capabilities



With our growing global network of healthcare-compliant distribution facilities, we can help you to plan and stage inventory where needed and fulfil orders quickly and accurately. We combine the reach of more than 950 global Field Stocking Locations with our technology platform for order and inventory visibility and a full range of transportation options to cost-effectively meet your surgical, pharmaceutical and equipment needs.
For companies with temperature-sensitive storage needs, UPS has multiple cGMP (current Good Manufacturing Practice) and PDMA (Prescription Drug Marketing Act) compliant distribution centres. We offer advanced security systems and chain-of-custody protocols for high-value and controlled products. These facilities offer turnkey, scalable alternatives to the substantial capital investment required to develop, build, validate, license and manage an in-sourced healthcare warehouse.





Distribution Strategies



Combined with our network of field stocking locations, we have distribution management technology and established processes that allow you to strategically position your product close to your customers, while speeding transit and lowering overall transportation costs. Tap into our WMS software and vendor-managed inventory model to improve the timing of inbound shipments, streamline stock, adjust replenishment schedules and reduce carrying costs  no matter how many suppliers and end points are involved.





Logistics Support



When everyone is vested in superior outcomes, obstacles become opportunities. When you partner with UPS, you tap into our over 3,000 global healthcare logistics experts who closely collaborate with your teams to help keep products safe, patients healthy and supply chains working efficiently.
Our healthcare team includes quality assurance and regulatory affairs experts, along with logistics, medical, operations and marketing professionals who are well-positioned to deliver on your specific challenge. Whether pharmaceuticals, medical devices, biotechnology, medical and surgical supplies, over-the-counter preparation or animal health, UPS can help you create your most effective supply chain solution compliantly and profitably.





Service Parts Solutions



For times when repair of non-regulated devices is required or maintenance is needed, rely on our service parts logistics. We can provide fast inventory access and expedited repairs to minimise downtime, helping you to satisfy customer service agreements. We can also deliver the critical replacement parts the next day, or in many cases, within a few hours, meeting the needs of both doctors and patients. And our returns handling capabilities help to make your reverse logistics more efficient.





UPS Facilities Fast Facts




21 CFR Part 11 validated Warehouse Management Systems
Quality assurance systems that adhere to FDA, CFR, and pharmacy regulations
Validated temperature-controlled storage and freezer capabilities
Controlled substance storage, including DEA-approved vaults and cage
Dry ice replenishment and refrigeration services
PDMA (Prescription Drug Marketing Act) and cGMP (current Good Manufacturing Practice) compliant distribution space with temperature and humidity-controlled environments
Facilities maintain geographic- and product-specific regulatory compliance, including FDA (Food and Drug Administration), DEA (Drug Enforcement Agency), Health Canada, EMA (European Medicines Agency), HSA (Health Sciences Agency), and VAWD (Verified Accredited Wholesale Distributor), and all applicable government accreditations and licenses
Gobal ISO 14385 certifications for medical devices at all healthcare distribution centers
Rigorous UPS training and auditing programs to exceed our commitment as your healthcare logistics problem solvers

















Related Services



Contract Logistics
Rely on us for end-to-end supply chain strategy, design and management services, from supplier and multi-carrier management to post-sales service solutions.
Flex Global View
Manage your global supply chain, suppliers and inventory with enterprise-wide tracking across multiple transportation modes.
WorldShip
Automate your high-volume shipping  from shipping to reports  with this comprehensive browser-based software.












In This Section

Healthcare

Storage and Distribution






Related Information

Shipping and Compliance
Cold Chain Solutions
Supply Chain Management
Export/Import
Visibility and Delivery Control
Monitoring and Management



Product Recovery and Recall

Show AllHide (1)
















Ship just a few times a week? No Problem.We took the guesswork out, and put the easy in.

Try It Now










Explore your options. Calculate and compare UPS shipment costs and transit timeall online.

Get a Shipping Rate










Find peace of mind with the details.UPS tracking solutions show the progress of your shipment every step of the way, across town or around the world.

Learn More


























Learn how infrastructure can create possibilities.

Request More InformationOpen the link in a new window

















Stay informed. Sign up for our emails.
See More InfoSee Less Info



Subscribe to UPS emails.Email Address

Sign up

See More InfoSee Less Info





CloseEmail Examples

Sign up for email offers, insights, and industry news that can help improve your shipping.
                     You can manage your preferences at any time. 
                  




News and Insights tohelp you ship smarter



Service Updates to alert you to severe weather and events impacting operations



Promotions and Offers to help you get the most for your money



Product News to keep you up-to-date on new services, tools and features




















Customer Service

Help Centre
Claims


Email Us
Call UsOpen the link in a new window
See All Contact OptionsOpen the link in a new window





This Site

Tracking
Shipping
Services
My Profile





Company Info

About UPS
Media RelationsOpen the link in a new window
Investor RelationsOpen the link in a new window
CareersOpen the link in a new window









Connect with Us

UPS CompassOpen the link in a new window






Legal

Global Home
Protect Against Fraud
Service Terms and Conditions
Website Terms of Use
Privacy NoticeOpen the link in a new window
Copyright 1994-
               2019United Parcel Service of America, Inc. All rights reserved.
            









