






       |
Main |
      Region Map | Introduction | Photo
    Gallery | Directory | E-mail 







GENERAL
      INFORMATION
Agricultural
      science in Ukraine has a long-standing and respected history. Its
      achievements are well known worldwide. The Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian
      Sciences (UAAS), founded in December 1990, is the scientific and
      methodological center which guides, executes and coordinates research
      activities for agriculture in Ukraine.
The
      Academy is a self-governing scientific organization supported by the
      State. It is autonomous in the organization of its fundamental,
      investigative, and applied research, financial and business activity, and
      training of specialists.
The
      main objectives of the Academy are: providing extension services for the
      development of the sectors of Ukraine's agro-industrial complex,
      production of elite seeds, planting stock, and animal genetics.
The
      Academy determines basic trends of fundamental and applied research, draws
      up both governmental and sector scientific and technical programs on
      important problems in agriculture, water management, food and processing
      industries, and other sectors in Ukraines agro-industrial complex. In
      addition it organizes and supervises the fulfillment of these programs,
      methodically supports the implementation of research and development
      results sets up the network of scientific institutions, carries out the
      training of highly qualified specialists, and conducts research and
      technical cooperation with foreign countries.
The
      supreme body of self-government of the Academy is the General Assembly.
      Between meetings of the General Assembly, the Academy is administered by
      its Presidium, which is elected for a five-year term.
The
      UAAS structure consists of 8 departments, which was set up on a sector
      basis. The departments are: Land cultivation; Plant production; Animal
      breeding; Veterinary medicine; Food and processing industry; Mechanization
      and electrification; Agrarian economics and land relations; Regional
      extension service centers.
The
      Academy's personnel include 72 academicians, 84 corresponding members, 40
      foreign members, and 8 honorary members.
Its
      networks comprises 56 scientific-research institutes with their branches
      and experimental stations; the Nikitsky State Botanical Garden; 10
      regional and 3 sector state agricultural experimental stations; and the
      Askania-Nova State Biosphere Reserve.
The
      Academy has an experimental and production base consisting of 154
      experimental farms, state elite seed-growing farms, and other enterprises
      comprising about 679 thousand hectares of land.
The
      staff of the institutions of the Academy number 124 thousand employees,
      among which there are 5073 researchers, including about 345 Doctors and
      2071 Candidates of Science (Ph.D.)

The
      main fields of research are:


biotechnological
          studies;

substantiation
          of optimum structure of agri-landscapes, and development of adjusted
          land-use systems ensuring fertility restoration and protection of
          soils;

crop
          selection and breeding, crop production techniques and plant
          protection;

design
          of animal production systems on the basis of breeding achievements and
          new production technologies;

creating
          of systems and means for animal protection;

developing
          of up-to-date technologies and equipment for food production;

development
          of mechanized practices, and machinery and equipment complexes for the
          production of agricultural commodities;

economic
          research in the agri-industrial complex and improvement of land
          relations in rural areas;

creation
          of methodological and organizational fundamentals for extension
          service in agriculture.

The
      key sources of financing scientific and research activities are the State
      budget and revenues from executing science-related works under commercial
      contracts. Budgetary funds are assigned in accordance with the results of
      contests of research projects.
The
      Academy is carrying out studies in 32 sector and 12 governmental research
      and development programs, trains young scientists in 52 specialties,
      satisfies 90% of the national elite seed demand and almost 25% of that for
      pedigree young livestock.
Nearly
      70 institutions maintain cooperation with foreign research centers and
      organizations.
      
Address:
      
UAAS:
      9, Suvorova Str.,
      Kyiv 01010, Ukraine
      Phone/Fax: +380 44 226 3284; 290 1085
      -mail: prezid@uaan.kiev.ua





Hosted by: Aginukraine.com - Last updated January 06, 2002 by Becquet's Custom Programming


