









Toggle navigation











Forum
 











Food in Every Country
 Spain to Zimbabwe, Cumulative Index
 Food in Ukraine - Ukrainian Food, Ukrainian Cuisine




      Ukraine
    














      Recipes
    








      1 GEOGRAPHIC SETTING AND ENVIRONMENT
    









      Ukraine is the second largest country in Europe. It is located between
      Poland and Russia. It is slightly smaller than the state of Texas. Much of
      the southeastern part of the country borders the Black Sea.
    

      Most of Ukraine's land is made up of fertile plains, or steppes,
      and plateaus. Mountains are found only in the west and extreme south in
      the Crimean Peninsula. This area's climate is subtropical. Winters
      vary from cool along the Black Sea to cold farther inland. The temperature
      inland ranges from 66F in July, to 21F in January. Northern
      and western Ukraine average 27 inches of rainfall a year. This temperate
      climate is ideal for growing crops. In fact, more than 57 percent of the
      Ukraine's fertile soil is suitable for growing such crops as sugar
      beets, wheat, and potatoes.
    



      2 HISTORY AND FOOD
    

      The earliest known farmers in the Ukraine were the Trypillians
      (45002000 
      
        B.C.
      
      ). The territory of the Ukraine had rich soil and a favorable climate
      perfect for cultivating crops. The Trypillians grew barley, millet, rye,
      and wheat. They also herded sheep, pigs, and cattle. Wheat was plentiful,
      and soon trading routes were established along Ukraine's Black Sea
      coast to market the grain. The Ukraine territory became the crossing road
      connecting Arabia, Europe, and Asia.
    

      Life depended on the activities of cultivating soil for crops. In
      pre-Christian times, holidays were celebrated during times of transition
      from one type of agricultural activity to another. These seasonal
      festivities were later incorporated into Christian holidays, such as
      Christmas and Easter.
    






      Over time, Ukraine fell under the power of many different countries,
      including Poland, Austria, and Russia. Despite being under Russian
      domination for almost 200 years, (gaining independence only in 1991),
      Ukrainians proudly kept their native traditions, customs, and cuisine.
    


        Kovbasa
      
       (sausage) and sauerkraut have Polish origins. 
      
        Varnyky
      
       (dumplings) and 
      
        holubtsi
      
       (stuffed cabbage) were originally imported from Turkey. Strudels, breaded
      meats, and desserts, such as cheesecake and tarts, were carried over from
      Austro-Hungarian times. Although Ukrainian dishes have origins from
      different countries, how they are prepared are uniquely Ukrainian.
    



      Potato Varenyky (Potato Dumplings)
    



      Ingredients
    


        2 cups flour
      

        1 egg
      

        1 teaspoon salt
      

        3 cups instant mashed potatoes, prepared
      

         cup cheddar or processed cheese, shredded
      

        Salt and pepper, to taste
      




      Procedure
    


        To make filling: prepare instant potatoes according to package
        directions.
      

        In a mixing bowl, add cheese and mix well. Set aside.
      

        In a large mixing bowl, combine flour, egg, and salt.
      

        Mix in a little water at a time until dough is stiff.
      

        Roll out dough on floured surface, about -inch thick.
      

        Using the rim of a glass or cookie cutter, cut out circles of dough.
      

        Fill each circle of dough with about 1 Tablespoon of the potato-cheese
        mixture. Fold over and seal edges.
      

        To cook, bring a large pot of water to a boil and drop in the 
        
          varenyky
        
         one at a time. They are done when they float to the top.
      


      Serves 4 to 6.
    



      3 FOODS OF THE UKRAINIANS
    

      In the southern part of the Ukraine, plains called steppes have what is
      considered some of the most fertile soil in the world. Abundant rain and a
      mild climate made the Ukraine famous for its 
      
        chornozem,
      
       or 
      



            A visiting politician is greeted with the traditional Ukrainian
            welcome of bread, representing hospitality, and salt, representing
            friendship. The specially decorated loaf of bread and the salt are
            offered by young women dressed in folk costume.
          

            AP Photo/Richard Drew
          


       black earth. For centuries, the Ukraine was called
      the breadbasket of Europe.
    

      Ukrainian cuisine stems from peasant dishes based on the plentiful grains
      and staple vegetables grown in the country. Staple crops include sugar
      beets, potatoes, grapes, cabbages, and mushrooms. These are often key
      ingredients in soups and salads. The most popular dish is 
      
        borshch
      
      , a hearty soup made in a variety of ways, depending on the person who is
      cooking it. Mushroom, bean, and pea soups, and thick millet (a type of
      grain) chowders are also common. Other vegetable dishes include 
      
        holubtsi
      
       (stuffed cabbage) and 
      
        kartoplia solimkoi
      
       (straw potatoes). 
      
        Kotlety Po-Kyivskomy
      
       (Chicken Kiev), a chicken breast stuffed with a buttery filling, is a
      well-known dish outside Ukraine.
    



      Cabbage Borshch
    



      Ingredients
    


        3 cans beef broth (approximately 6 cups)
      

        1 pound cabbage, shredded
      

        1 beet, peeled and grated
      

        1 medium onion, grated
      

        3 medium tomatoes, diced
      

         Tablespoon salt
      

        1 teaspoon celery salt
      

         teaspoon pepper (or more, to taste)
      

        1 Tablespoons lemon juice
      

        1 Tablespoon sugar
      




      Procedure
    


        Measure the beef broth into a large pot. add the vegetables, celery
        salt, and pepper.
      

        Cover and cook over medium to low heat for 25 minutes.
      

        Add the lemon juice and sugar. Cook an additional 5 minutes.
      

        Serve with bread.
      


      Serves 6.
    



      Holubtsi (Stuffed Cabbage Rolls)
    



      Ingredients
    


         pound ground beef
      

        1 medium onion, chopped
      

        4 Tablespoons vegetable oil
      

        4 cups cooked rice
      

        4 cups water
      

        Salt and pepper, to taste
      

         cup tomato juice
      

        1 medium cabbage, core removed
      

        1 Tablespoon vinegar
      




      Procedure
    


        To make filling: cook rice according to package directions.
      

        In a frying pan, add the oil and heat over medium heat.
      

        Brown the onions and hamburger.
      

        Combine rice, onion, and hamburger in a mixing bowl. Season with salt
        and pepper. Set aside.
      

        Preheat oven to 350F.
      

        In a large pot, bring the water and vinegar to a boil.
      

        Place the cabbage into the pot and simmer long enough for the cabbage
        leaves to become limp, about 5 to 10 minutes. Do not overcook.
      

        Remove cabbage and tear off cabbage leaves from the cabbage head.
      

        Remove the hard center part of the leaf.
      

        Place a spoonful of the rice mixture into the center of the leaf and
        roll tightly.
      

        Place cabbage rolls into a casserole dish and cover with the tomato
        juice.
      

        Bake for 1 to 1 hours.
      


      Makes 20 to 30 cabbage rolls.
    



      Kartoplia Solimkoi (Deep-Fried Straw Potatoes)
    



      Ingredients
    


        4 medium potatoes, peeled
      

        3 cups vegetable oil
      

        Salt, to taste
      




      Procedure
    


        Cut the potatoes into small strips, about -inch thick.
      

        Drop them into a bowl of ice water, then drain.
      

        Spread out onto paper towels and thoroughly dry.
      

        Heat the oil in a deep frying pan over high heat. Drop small bunches of
        potatoes at a time into the oil and fry until golden brown.
      

        Drain on paper towels and season with salt.
      


      Serves 4 to 6.
    

      Grains, such as wheat, rye, barley, oats, corn, and buckwheat are
      cultivated and made into many different types of breads. Some examples are
      
      
        agnautka
      
      , a flat whole-grained loaf that is commonly eaten at meals; 
      
        polianitsa
      
      , a large, round white bread; and 
      
        ikrainka
      
      , a heavy, dark wheel-shaped loaf weighing about three pounds. 
      
        Nachynka
      
       is a baked cornmeal side dish served with meat.
    



      Nachynka (Cornbread Stuffing)
    



      Ingredients
    


        1 small onion, finely chopped
      

        3 Tablespoons butter
      

        1 cup cornmeal
      

        1 teaspoon salt
      

        1 teaspoon sugar
      

         teaspoon black pepper
      

        3 cups heated milk
      

         cup half-and-half cream
      

        2 eggs, beaten
      




      Procedure
    


        Preheat oven to 350F.
      

        In a frying pan, heat the butter over medium heat. Add onion and cook
        until tender, but do not brown.
      

        In a mixing bowl, combine cornmeal, salt, sugar, and pepper. Add to
        frying pan and mix well.
      

        Pour in the heated milk gradually and stir well until mixture is smooth
        and free of lumps.
      

        Add the eggs and mix well. Pour the mixture into a greased casserole
        dish.
      

        Bake the 
        
          nachynka
        
         uncovered for 1 hour, or until golden brown.
      


      Serves 6 to 8.
    



      Kotlety Po-Kyivskomy (Chicken Kiev)
    



      Ingredients
    


        8 skinless, boneless chicken breasts
      

        8 Tablespoons butter (1 stick)
      

        1 Tablespoon parsley, chopped fine
      

        2 eggs
      

         cup flour (approximately)
      

        1 cups soft bread crumbs
      

        Vegetable oil for frying
      




      Procedure
    


        Cut the butter into eight equal parts, each about the size of your
        little finger. (Cut the stick of butter lengthwise into quarters, and
        then cut the quarters in half crosswise.)
      

        Roll the butter rectangles in parsley to coat, and set them aside in a
        cool place.
      

        Place the chicken breasts, one at a time, between two sheets of wax
        paper, and pound them with a rolling pin or kitchen mallet until they
        are thin. Carefully remove the wax paper.
      

        Place one butter rectangle on each chicken breast, and roll the breast
        around the butter. Press the roll together to form a compact roll.
        Repeat until all 8 breasts have been rolled.
      

        Beat the two eggs lightly in a shallow dish. On a sheet wax paper,
        spread some flour; spread some bread crumbs on another sheet of wax
        paper.
      

        Dip the rolls first into the flour, then the eggs, and then the bread
        crumbs.
      

        When four rolls are done, heat some oil in a large skillet, and
        carefully add the rolls. Fry, turning several times, for about 15 to 20
        minutes until the chicken rolls are golden brown and cooked through.
        Transfer to a serving dish, cover, and repeat with the remaining 4
        rolls. (Keep the first batch warm in the oven set at the lowest
        temperature.)
      


      Serves 8.
    

      In Ukrainian cuisine, when the dough isn't baked, it is usually
      boiled, such as 
      
        kasha
      
       (hot cereal), or fried in the form of dumplings or fritters. Freshly made
      dumplings called 
      
        varenyky
      
       are a common Ukrainian staple. 
      
        Varenyky
      
       is dough stuffed with a variety of foods, such as potatoes, meats,
      cheeses, sauerkraut, and even fruit, such as blueberries or cherries, for
      dessert. Each region, restaurant, and family has its own recipe.
    

      The foothills of the Carpathian Mountains, located in the western Ukraine,
      provide pastures for grazing beef and dairy cattle. Meats, such as 
      
        kovbasa
      
       (sausage), poultry, and pork are important to the Ukrainian diet.
    

      Pork is considered the national meat and pork fat is often used in
      cooking. It is used mostly for frying, but also can be eaten smoked or
      with salt. Common dairy products include milk, 
      
        syrnyky
      
       (cottage cheese fritters), 
      
        nalynsnyk
      
       (cheese-filled crepes), and 
      
        riazhanka
      
       (fermented, baked milk).
    

      Desserts are often baked into sweet breads, cakes, and cookies, and made
      with honey and fruits, such as plums, blueberries, and cherries.
    


        Dinner Menu for Sviaty Vechir (Christmas Eve)
      


          Kutya
        
         (a type of wheat porridge)
      


          Borshch
        
         (hearty vegetable soup)
      

        Baked or fried fish
      


          Oseledsi
        
         (pickled fish)
      


          Holubtsi
        
         (cabbage rolls)
      


          Varenyky
        
         (dumpling) with potato, sauerkraut, and prune filling
      

        Cooked beans
      


          Kapusta
        
         and peas (sauerkraut and peas)
      

        Beets with mushrooms
      

        Stewed fruit
      




      4 FOOD FOR RELIGIOUS AND HOLIDAY CELEBRATIONS
    

      Around 85 percent of Ukrainians are Christian. Therefore, the most
      important holiday in the Ukrainian church is Easter, followed by
      Christmas. Both holidays are celebrated according to the old-style Julian
      calendar, resulting in Christmas Day falling on January 7. Christmas Eve
      is called the 
      
        Sviaty Vechir
      
       (Holy Evening). To celebrate, a ritual meal is traditionally prepared
      with 12 mostly meatless dishes, which symbolize the 12 apostles who
      gathered at the Last Supper. In some homes, the supper table is scattered
      with some hay, in memory of baby Jesus in the manger, with an elaborate
      tablecloth. 
      
        Kolach
      
       is a traditional bread placed in the middle of the table. The meal
      usually begins with a small bowl of 
      
        kutya
      
      , a mixture of cooked wheat, honey, poppy seeds, chopped nuts, and apples.
      This is followed by several fish dishes, mushrooms, 
      
        holubtsi
      
       (stuffed cabbage), 
      
        varenyky
      
       (dumplings), fruits, cakes, such as 
      
        makiwnyk
      
       (poppy seed cake) and bread. 
      
        Borshch
      
       (a hearty soup) is usually included as well.
    



      Kutya (Sweet Porridge)
    



      Ingredients
    


        1 cup cream of wheat
      

         cup margarine or butter
      

        2 cups water
      

         cup each honey, poppy seeds, and chopped nuts
      




      Procedure
    


        Bring the water to a boil in a saucepan.
      

        Add the cream of wheat and chopped nuts. Stir until soft and the water
        is absorbed.
      

        Pour the mixture into a serving dish and add the butter and honey.
      

        Mix in the poppy seeds, saving a few for sprinkling over the top.
      


      Serves 2.
    



      Makiwnyk (Poppy Seed Cake)
    



      Ingredients
    


         cup poppy seeds
      

        1 cup milk
      

        2 Tablespoons cornstarch
      

         cup oil
      

         cup sugar
      

        1 teaspoon vanilla
      

         lemon or orange rind, grated
      

        2 cups flour
      

        1 teaspoon cinnamon
      

        2 teaspoons baking powder
      

        2 Tablespoons lemon juice
      

        1 Tablespoon sugar
      




      Procedure
    


        Soak poppy seeds in milk for 1 hour in a large bowl.
      

        Preheat oven to 350F.
      

        Add cornstarch, oil, sugar, vanilla and rind to the poppy seed-milk
        mixture and stir.
      

        In a separate mixing bowl, combine the dry ingredients.
      

        Add the dry ingredients to the poppy seed mixture and mix well.
      

        Pour into a greased cake pan and bake for 45 minutes.
      

        Top with glaze (see recipe).
      


      Serves 6 to 8.
    



      Makiwnyk Glaze (Poppy Seed Cake Glaze)
    



      Ingredients
    


        2 Tablespoons lemon juice
      

        1 Tablespoon sugar
      




      Procedure
    


        Add the lemon juice and sugar to a small saucepan and heat over medium
        heat.
      

        Stir gently until it forms a syrup.
      

        Drizzle over Makiwnyk.
      


      A Ukrainian Easter meal also has its ritual foods. In the morning,
      breakfast foods such as hard-boiled eggs, 
      
        kovbasa
      
       (sausage), baked cheese, breads, butter, and relishes, are placed into a
      basket and taken to church to be blessed. For Easter dinner, ham or roast
      pork, vegetable salads, cheesecake, tortes, and other pastries are eaten.
    

      Besides Christmas and Easter, there are special breads for almost every
      important 
       Ukrainian occasion. A bride and groom are blessed, and the dead
      remembered with 
      
        kolach
      
      , a rich, intricate, braided bread, which symbolizes good fortune and
      eternity. For a typical wedding, seven bridesmaids grind flour from wheat
      grown in seven different fields to bake a 
      
        korovai
      
      , a bread that symbolizes good luck. There are dozens of different ways of
      preparing and baking breads in the Ukraine.
    



      5 MEALTIME CUSTOMS
    

      In general, Ukrainians eat a light breakfast. It can be bread with butter
      served with coffee or tea, or pastries, such as a cream-filled blintz. 
      
        Kasha
      
       (cereal), steamed buckwheat, barley, or millet with milk may also be
      served. Their main meal is eaten around mid-afternoon and usually consists
      of soup, such as 
      
        borshch
      
       and a dish with meat or poultry. The third meal of the day takes place
      around 6 or 7 p.m. It is usually a time when all family members get
      together. Eating at a restaurant is considered a luxury, and is usually
      not done very often.
    

      Ukrainians eat with a fork in their left hand and a knife in their right
      hand. It is considered impolite to hold your hands under the table during
      dinner, or to put your elbows on the table. In order not to seem wasteful,
      Ukrainians may eat everything on their plates. When they are visiting,
      Ukrainians may ask for second helpings to show appreciation for the food.
      Hosts often give guests a loaf of bread with salt on top, a tradition that
      dates back many centuries. Bread and salt were once considered necessary
      ingredients for health. The bread represents hospitality and the salt
      represents friendship.
    



      6 POLITICS, ECONOMICS, AND NUTRITION
    

      About one-third of Ukraine's land is used as pasture. Crops include
      sugar beets, potatoes, rye, and wine grapes. Before its independence,
      Ukraine was the most productive agricultural area in the Soviet Union. The
      land accounted for one-quarter of Soviet Union grain production, one-fifth
      of its meat and dairy, and more than one half of its sugar beet
      production. Farmers raise cereal crops, such as wheat and corn. Since its
      independence, Ukraine has suffered financially, resulting in high food
      prices, a shortage of medical equipment, and modern facilities, especially
      in rural areas. Despite having economic difficulties, most Ukrainians
      receive adequate nutrition. In fact, less than one percent of children
      under five are malnourished, and only 6 percent of children are too short
      for their age. Since Ukraine joined the World Bank in 1992, many different
      programs have been implemented to help the country's economy.
    



      7 FURTHER STUDY
    

      Books
    

      Farley, Marta Pesetska. 
      
        Festive Ukrainian Cooking.
      
       Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1990.
    

      Zahny, Bohdan. 
      
        The Best of Ukrainian Cuisine
      
      . New York, NY: Hippocrene Books, 1998.
    

      Web Sites
    

      Insider.com. [Online] Available 
      
        http://www.sdinsider.com/community/groups/ukraine/Bread_and_Salt_Mean_.html
      
       (accessed April 22, 2001).
    

      UkraineThe Breadbasket and the Sugar Bowl. [Online] Available 
      
        http://russia-in-us.com/Cuisine/Dadiani/ukraine.htm
      
       (accessed April 22, 2001).
    











User Contributions:
 1 N.VINOTHKUMARAug 14, 2012 @ 9:21 pmHAI SIR/MAM ,YOU MISSING WHEAT AND RYE .THIS FOOD IS THE HEALTHY AND STRONG FOR HUMAN LIFE AND ALSO OATS


Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:





Name:



E-mail:



Show my email publicly



Type the code shown:








Public Comment: (50-4000 characters)





 Send comment



 
Food in Ukraine - Ukrainian Food, Ukrainian Cuisine forum


 
				Turkey

				 United Kingdom
			  






 2019 Advameg, Inc.



 




