












UAWire










Home

Ukraine

Russia

Around the World

Opinions





 





 




















 Follow Us
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe to  our rss feed


















Follow @uawire














                    Please stay with us...
                

                    Like us on FaceBook
                

UAWire


                    Follow us on Twitter
                

 


                        I am already with you. Don't show it again.
                    

 
 
 






































Ukraine offers third of its gas storage to European Union


Tuesday, March 26, 2019 1:00:19 PM

















According to the statement published on the Ukrtransgaz website, Ukraine is ready to lease at least a third of its gas storages to EU countries.
This should ensure uninterrupted gas supply to the consumers of Russian gas from Hungary and other European countries next winter even if Russia stops gas transit through the territory of Ukraine to the EU countries after January 1, 2020, stated the operator of the gas transportation system of Ukraine.
According to Ukrtransgaz, they can now offer about 12 billion cubic meters of gas stored in underground gas storages to European consumers. The maximum daily extraction capacity from underground gas storage facilities can reach 260 million cubic meters, the statement read.
For example, Hungary, which annually consumes more than 10 billion cubic meters of natural gas, may use the gas reserves in Ukrainian gas storage facilities. Two thirds of this volume is Russian gas, about 20% is domestic production, and the rest is imported from Austria.
According to Ukrtransgaz, the system of underground gas storage facilities of Ukraine consists of 11 units with a total capacity of 31 billion cubic meters of gas. Over the past ten years, Ukraine has been using only 50-60% of its technical capabilities to meet its needs.


Ukraine, Ukrtransgaz, Europe, Austria, EU 



Share
















Comments

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.








All News


Poland: Russia helped unleash World War II
US: Russians under sanctions should not be allowed to PACE
Russia pledges aid to yet another African country
Russian Flotilla in Caspian Sea placed on alert
Russia jails Polish citizen on espionage charges
US to allocate $4 million to Ukraine for construction of arsenals
Russia returns to PACE, Ukraine leaves in protest
India dissatisfied with Russian missiles
Cuba declares its solidarity with Iran in conflict with US
Syrian general infuriates Russia
Russia promises to protect Iran from US sanctions
MH17 disaster foundation opposes Russias reinstatement in PACE
Russian Kalibr missile-armed frigate enters Cuba
PACE supports Russia's return to Council of Europe
Ukrainian Foreign Minister: Trump and Putin to discuss Ukraine
Putin: US is not ready for dialogue with Russia
Crimean Bridge builders left unpaid
Five offshore oil pipelines damaged in Syria by unidentified persons
Council of Europe threatens to reject Russian passports issued in Donbas
Ukraine to initiate new wave of pressure on Russia to release captured sailors













             2019 UAWire
        
 


 Follow Us :
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe to  our rss feed




















