







Group 
  
 of companies 
  
 

UA  | RU  | EN 




RETAIL CHAINS

LeSilpo

Silpo

Fora

Fozzy Cash&Carry

thrash!

Bila Romashka

ringoo

Own import

PL

For suppliers

Quality policy

RESTAURANTS

OTHER BUSINESSES

H Nizhyn

Varto Poultry Factory

Own logistics

BANK VOSTOK

Silpo Voyage
 
HISTORY

NEWS

DISCLAIMER

CONTACT US





  The number of stores of major Fozzy Group`s chains has increased by 686 in 2018
  FOR SUPPLIERS Supplier Portal To offer business proposals to Fozzy Group please fill in the feedback form  
  Fozzy Groups retailchains turnover increased by 26% in 2018 compared to the 2017 result

 RETAIL CHAINSRESTAURANTSOTHER BUSINESSES


 LE SILPO PREMIUM STORES 
 


Silpo  the largest chain of supermarkets in Ukraine
 


Fora - a chain of self-service convenience stores offering FMCG products
 


Fozzy C&C  wholesale and retail hypermarkets in the cash&carry format
 


Pharmaceutical supermarkets Bila Romashka  a new customer-oriented retail drugstore format
 


Garage Mobile Group  a chain of ringoo trade outlets 
 


 The first Czech restaurant in Ukraine  

 A cozy piece of Czech Republic in the center of Kyiv  

 The bright restaurant present guests a wealth of cuisine of southern Italy  

 Chinese restaurant in Kiev  

 Restaurant with a character of the hospitable Latin America  

A drinking establishment in the aesthetics style of restrained world bars  

 Bakery with a cozy French atmosphere  


Nizhyn ( Nizhyn) produces a wide range of canned fruits and vegetables 

Varto Poultry Factory specializes in raising poultry and the production of poultry meat 



JUSTIN - A NEW OPERATOR FOR DELIVERY MARKET

 



PJSC BANK VOSTOK is a universal bank offering a full range of banking services to private and corporate clients.

 


  Silpo Voyage chain of travel agencies 
 
 
 FOZZY GROUP, THE GROUP OF COMPANIES
Fozzy Group is one of the largest trade industrial groups in Ukraine and one of the leading Ukrainian retailers, with over 500 outlets all around the country. Besides retail, the Group's businessesinterests include food production, bank business, and restaurants. 
The group sells food and household products via itsSilpo supermarkets chain andLe Silpopremium stores, wholesale and retail Fozzyhypermarkets,Foraconvenience stores, andthrash!discounters chain. Fozzy Group chains stock their own brands of goods Premiya, Premiya Select, Povna Chasha, Povna Charka, Zelena Krayina, Protex, EXTRA!, and others. Silpo supermarkets have a customer loyalty program called Vlasnyi Rakhunok, which, in addition to offering customer rewards, is an effective research and marketing tool for both the chain and for suppliers.
The group sells non-food products in its Bila Romashkapharmaceutical supermarkets, andringoopersonal electronics stores. 
The major industrial enterprises in the Fozzy Group are the Nizhyncanningbusiness and theVarto poultry factory, Boguslav Food Plant, and Vogni Hestii, LLC (Lights of Hestya).
Banking sector is another Group's business area. Fozzy Group is a key shareholder of PJSC BANK VOSTOKand the new operator in the shipping market - Justin.
Fozzy Group restaurantbusiness includes theU Hromogo Pola,Staromak,POSITANO, 
        
Jiao-bar,ESCOBAR,WHO&WHY.DRINKERY bar,and two bakeriesBoulangeriein Kyiv.
Fozzy Group is introducing modern solutions in all areas of its activity. By investing in improving its business processes, the group has achieved leading positions in the retail market. By performing retail chains logistics through its own distribution centers, Fozzy Group has been able to ensure the timely delivery of food to its stores all over Ukraine. In addition, the group operates its own quality control system, ensuring full compliance with its standards in goods storage, transportation and sale.
Since its inception in 1997, Fozzy Group has focused on making innovative business improvements, creating new opportunities for the market and further developing the industry as a whole.






Search



 

NEWS

05.07.2018
To Silpo as to the Museum of Contemporary Japanese Art. The Opening of the First Silpo Store in the Manga Style
Read more




29.06.2018
In Odessa a New Store Silpo Is Opened in the Best Traditions of Lustdorf
Read more




01.06.2018
Meeting Summer and the First Supermarket Silpo in Fastov
Read more




25.05.2018
Silpo Is the First in Retail to Launch Its Station That Receives Recyclable Materials  #SilpoRecycling
Read more





Popular tags 

  
Czech restaurant FMCG Fozzy Group IT Kiev Kyiv Povna Charka Povna Chasha Premia Select Prema restaurant shop-in-shop Silpo Staromak U Chrom Pol 

 



 2012-2019 Fozzy Group. 
  
 All rights reserved.
  Disclaimer. Fozzy Group does its best to circulate true information and materials about their activities on this site. Copyright for all information and materials in the form they are posted on this site is reserved by Fozzy Group. 




