




















Freedom to Sushchenko
Politics
Elections
Economy
Defense
Society and Culture 
Sports
Crime
Accidents and Emergencies




Publications
Interviews
Photo
Video
Longreads
Releases




UA/TV
Contacts
More 


















Eng

 

Eng
Esp
Deu

Fra

Pol





News


Subscription


Photobank


Press-center


Releases


Live
























Ukrainian multimedia platform for broadcasting
Thursday, 27 June 2019, 14:59






  
  















Ukraines gas stocks in storage facilities grow by 20%


20.05.2019 13:02



Ukrinform




Ukraine has increased natural gas reserves by 20% since the beginning of the season of pumping natural gas, according to JSC Ukrtransgaz.

As of May 18, 2019, 10.493 billion cubic meters of gas was accumulated in underground gas storage facilities. Since the start of the season of pumping natural gas into undergroundstorage facilities (April 4), gas reserves have grown by 1.748 billion cubic meters, or 20%.
According to Ukrtransgaz, on May 18, 71.83 million cubic meters of gas was pumped into storage facilities. At the same time, own gas production on this day amounted to 57.6 million cubic meters, and imports - 50.8 million cubic meters.
iy












   Lets get started read our news at facebook messenger  > > >   
Click here for subscribe

 




Top news





EBRD provides Ukraine with EUR 150 mln for power grid modernization






Ukraine decreases state debt by USD 1.43 bln in May  Finance Ministry






Ukraines construction industry grows 26% in January-May 2019






Ukraine ready to deepen cooperation with United States  Groysman








More news




Top news






DSV company proposes a lot of cargo carriages










Topics





Agency

 Information on Agency 
 Our Contacts 
 Subscribtion Terms 
 Our Services 
 UA-TV 
 Privacy policy and personal data protection 





While citing and using any materials on the Internet, links to the website ukrinform.net not lower than the first paragraph are mandatory. In addition, citing the translated materials of foreign media outlets is possible only if there is a link to the website ukrinform.net and to the website of a foreign media outlet. Citing and using materials in offline media, mobile apps, Smart TV are allowed only with written permission from Ukrinform. News and publications marked as Advertisement and PR and articles in the section Releases include promoted content, and an advertiser is responsible for the content.
 2015-2019 Ukrinform. All rights reserved.
Website design  Studio Laconica


























Extended searchHide extended search



All topics
Freedom to Sushchenko
Politics
Elections
Economy
Defense
Society and Culture 
Sports
Crime
Accidents and Emergencies



By period:




 -





































