










 +38 068 0123450

Call
						now





								Tours
								








												Active Adventure											




												Sightseeing and Culture											




												Culinary Tours											




												Wildlife Tours											




												Heritage Tours											




												Photography Tours											




												Winter Tours											




												Family Tours											





Create
							tour












HomeAll ToursUkraine GuideAbout usContact UsWork with us Read Reviews 














Things to do							

SightseeingHikingCyclingSkiingResearching your family Places to see							

Kyiv Travel GuideLviv Travel GuideOdesa Travel GuideCarpathians Travel GuideWestern Ukraine Travel GuideWhere to stayGet aroundTravel TipsTravel Stories and Our News 






8 UKRAINIAN CUISINE RESTAURANTS TO VISIT IN KYIV
2018-12-03 16:26:39















What do you know about Ukrainian cuisine? Borsch, varenyky, salo and maybe some few other names. Ukraine though has one of the world's richest national cuisines. We found some good places for different budgets where you have a chance to improve your knowledge about our national food.

Join one of our culinary tours and cook by youself.

Ostannya Barykada

Restaurant, museum and cultural space - all in one place. One of the best hight Ukrainian cuisine restaurants as rated by locals. Perfect place to taste traditional Ukrainian dishes and drinks in modern interpretation, get to know more about history of revolutions and enjoy live music.
Average bill per person: 300 - 350 UAH
Must try: sweet varenyky and galushky.

Chicken Kyiv

Iconic chicken dish, well known and beloved all over the world, is back! Brand-new mono-product restaurant offers an interesting take on this legendary dainty. Being in Kyiv it's definitely must-try!
Average bill per person: 250- 300 UAH
Must try: Chiken Kyiv, of course!)

Petrus-

The restaurants menu is accented with the favorite classics of Ukrainian cuisine. 13 types of handmade varenyky, halushky, homemade sausage, cabbage rolls, pickled food, borsch with pampushki (garlic donuts), cottage cheese pancakes  the choice of national dishes is huge!
An important peculiarity of Petrus restaurant is that we work 24/7. 
Location of the restaurant  in Pechersk, the historical center of Kyiv, allows making the architectural, historic and gastronomic discoveries of our country at the same time!
Average bill per person: 300 UAH
Must try: varenyky and borsch

Mamayeva Sloboda

If you want to try something exclusively traditional, make a real journey through time in the open-air museum Mamayeva Sloboda. Ukrainian Shynok (restaurant) is a perfect place to explore the historical, traditional cuisine of Central Ukraine. All the dishes and drinks are prepared according to the recipes of the 17-18th century  the times of Ukrainian national heroes  Cossacks. In addition, they are served in traditional earthenware painted plates and historical bottles made of blown glass. The Ukrainian shynok works only on natural local products  it means tasty and healthy Ukrainian food!
Average bill per person: 300- 400 UAH
Must try: Cossack kulish, vereschaka, varenyky and varenukha.

Klukva and Brukva

First restaurant in Ukraine that works 100% only on local products. Every ingredient, andeven plates, are homemade, that ensures authenticity of cuisine and high quality of dishes. A big part of menu is seasonable which means everything is totally fresh, ecological and healthy.
Average bill per person: 200- 250 UAH
Must try: pickedsnacks, borsch and pies.

Varenychna Katyusha

In case you're looking for something old school, there is a wide chain of back in USSR restaurants. Most of the dishes served in here can't be called traditionally Ukrainian, although, they are cooked byalmost every Ukrainian mom or granny on daily basis. It can be nice place to have an ordinary lunch for reasonable price and feel yourself in a typical 70's flat.
Average bill per person: 100- 180 UAH
Must try: varenyky, fried potatoes and lemon cake.

Puzata Hata

A famous place to have a hot meal on your lunchbreak, between classes or just after making a walking tour in old city. A chain of democratic self-service restaurants that offers home-like food, as well as popular European cuisine dishes. Note that it's almost always crowded, so take care about findinga free table before you order the food.
Average bill per person: 70- 100 UAH
Must try: borsch, fried potatoes and pancakes.

Kyivska Perepichka

And the last but not the least, not the restaurant but for surelegendary Kyiv fast food - perepichka. According to some locals, it's a mainthing to try for somebody who visitcapital for the first time. It seems that the queue next to the small window never gets shorter during ages. And it's not a surprise, cause the unique taste of sausage fried in a dough remains unchanged for all this time. Indeed, it's a taste of childhood for most of the citizens.
Average bill per person: 12UAH
Must try: perepichka :)
Check those places on the map bellow:








Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by
		Disqus. 




Subscribe to Active News
The latest ActiveUkraine news, articles, and resources, sent straight to
	your inbox every
	month.
	Subscribe now and never miss an issue.













 







Related stories






10 AWESOME THINGS TO DO IN KYIV
25 Sep-2018



Comments: 









THINGS TO DO OUTSIDE OF ODESA
04 Dec-2018



Comments: 









FIVE NEW OFF THE BEATEN TRACK KYIV TOURS
30 Nov-2018



Comments: 



 





 


About usContact UsWork with us FAQsBooking conditions 

			 2017 Active Ukraine. All rights reserved.
			No part of this site may be reproduced without our written permission.
		









