























About

Contributors
ARC2020 NewsFlash
NEW: Weekly Brief
Contact


Topics

Agroecology
AgTech
CETA
Climate
Food Sovereignty
GMOs
High Nature Value
Industrial Farming
Landgrabbing
Letters
Milk Crisis
Organic Farming
Pesticides
Rural
Rural Sociology
Seeds
Soil
TTIP
Waste


Debates

#AgTechTakeback
#Soilmatters
#AfterCAP
#MilkCrisis
#LivestockDebate


Series

re:CAP
CAP in Poland
Pour une autre PAC
Rural Sociology
Spains CAP Debate
Brexit
Landgrabbing
Letter From A Farm


Agroecology

News
Brochure
Videos


CAP

Debate
News
CAP in Poland
re:CAP
Greening
Simplification


Letters

Letter From A Farm


Articles

All Articles
Newsletter
NEW: Weekly Brief


 








Search for:



 





HomeLatest from key partnersUkraine | Small-Scale Farms Will Persist and Develop in Parallel to large-Scale Industrial Agriculture

Ukraine | Small-Scale Farms Will Persist and Develop in Parallel to large-Scale Industrial Agriculture
15 January, 2019
Natalia Mamonova
Latest from key partners, Main stories


Mykolay was formerly a tractor driver, and Maria a veterinarian, as part of the kolkhoz in the village of Rusanivtsi. Today, they are self-sufficient subsistence farmers, keeping two cows, geese, and chickens. In the photo, they are shown returning home with hay, which they had mown from abandoned farmlands (Letichiv district, Khmelnytsk region, Ukraine. Photo by N. Mamonova).
By Natalia Mamonova in Ukraine
Prevalence oflarge farming entities, also known as agroholdings, in the agricultural sector ofpost-socialist economiesraises a lot of public concerns with respect to their effects on the society. Mass media often point to the threats that thelarge-scale agriculturecarries for welfare of rural inhabitants, inclusiveness of land and agricultural markets and even democratic deliberation of public policies. Whereas some of these issues have been discussed in thefirstandsecondparts of our interview withDr. Natalia Mamonova, Research Fellow at theRussia and Eurasia Programme,Swedish Institute of International Affairs (UI), today she explicitly addresses the role of agroholdings in sustainable development in the contexts of Russia and Ukraine.
Workers at a former kolkhoz in the Letichiv district, which is currently the subsidiary of a large American agroholding. The farm enterprise preserved its Soviet name, structure, and many of its former employees (Khmelnitsk region, Ukraine. Photo by N. Mamonova)
What is the impact of large-scale farming on sustainable development in Russia and Ukraine?
Natalia Mamonova:Thelarge-scale agriculturehas positive and negative effects. Among positive effects, I would like to mention the following: bringing farmland back into production, improvement of rural infrastructure, and rural poverty reduction. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the reorganized kolkhozes and sovkhozes faced severe financial difficulties, which resulted in their bankruptcy and the abandonment of collective farmlands. This in turn induced a rapid growth of rural unemployment, a drastic decline in the livelihood conditions and living standards of many rural families.
One of the modern combine harvesters at the JSC kolkhoz Named after Lenin. In total, the kolkhoz has 48,000 ha, including 24,000 ha of arable land and 14,000 ha of grassland. It employs 370 people (village Arzgir, Stavropol Krai, Russia. Photos by N. Mamonova).
The arrival of the large agricultural business in the early 2000s has restored the abandoned (often uncultivated) farmland and improved financial performance of the agricultural sector. As a result of overall economic recovery and the inflow of private and state money in the countryside, the share of rural households below the subsistence level decreased from 74.2 % in 2000 to 20.3 % in 2010 in Ukraine and from 73.1 % in 1999 to 15.4 % in 2006 in Russia.
However, there are a number of negative effects.In one of my studies, I argue that large-scale agricultural companies pursue the so-called control grabbing. Their activities do not directly lead to the dispossession ofsmallholdersfrom their land, but imply gaining corporate control over the land and associated resources, state subsidies, and agricultural value chain. In such circumstances, rural households are unable to develop beyond the subsistence-oriented production and to become commercial family farmers.
In my research, I demonstrated that large farms control nearly 80 % of Russian and Ukrainian farmland, monopolized the agricultural value chain for staple crops and processed food, and accumulated nearly all state subsidies for agriculture. The control grabbing is commonly practiced by the so-called agroholdings (i.e. vertically and horizontally integrated groups of affiliated and associated agroenterprises), which became the dominant characteristic of contemporary large-scale agricultural development in Russia and Ukraine. Agroholdings often combine agricultural production enterprises with other upstream and downstream firms in the agri-food chain, such as producers of concentrated fodder, elevators, processing units and wholesalers. It is important to note that domestic agroholdings are those who primarily conduct control grabbing in the food chain. Foreign agroholdings generally are less integrated vertically, and focus mainly on the agricultural production (and control related storage facilities as a light form of vertical integration).
An official food market in Pereiaslav-Khmelnytskyi, where rural dwellers sell their products. They have to pay for a spot and, if necessary, for veterinary-sanitary tests (Kiev region, Ukraine. Photo by N. Mamonova).
Furthermore, the unemployment rates remain quite high in the post-Soviet countryside. As I have said, the control grabbing prevents the development ofsmall-scale agricultural entrepreneurshipin the countryside. Meanwhile, large agribusiness applies economies of scale and labor saving technologies. Therefore, it does not provide enough jobs to employ rural population, as it was practiced in the Soviet time.
And finally, the development of industrial agriculture has negative impact on the environment. The productivity oflarge-scale agribusinessis largely achieved through use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides, and industrial machinery, which negatively impact the quality of soil, water and biodiversity. Besides that, industrial agriculture contributes significantly to global warming, representing a large majority of total agriculture-related greenhouse gas emissions.
Mikhail is a tractor driver at the JSC kolkhoz Named after Lenin. He used to work at the same kolkhoz before the collapse of the Soviet Union. In the early 1990s, when the kolkhoz experienced severe difficulties, he was dismissed on grounds of redundancy. After that, he was jobless for a while, and then worked as a long-distance truck driver. He was happy to be hired again at the kolkhoz in the early 2000s. (village Arzgir, Stavropol Krai, Russia. Photo by N. Mamonova).
Do you think that large farms will continue to get larger?
Natalia MamonovaYes, I think,large farmswill continue to get larger. The governments of Russia and Ukraine have been supporting large-scale agricultural development despite their promises to help small- and medium-scale farmers. For example, many Russian officials argued that the embargo imposed by Russia on European food imports (in retaliation for Western sanctions against Russia over the crisis in Ukraine) should stimulate domestic food production, especially individual farming. However, the 30 % increase in domestic agricultural production during the last several years was achieved due to colossal state subsidies given to large agribusinesses. Meanwhile, the amount of family farmers has decreased by 1.6 times: from 285,000 farm units in 2006 to 174,400 in 2016 in Russia.
Petro and Nadezhda at their rural house, where they live most of the year (they only live in their city apartment for a few months in the winter). They cultivate nearly the entire household plot of 0.2 ha and follow the rural lifestyle. (village Trebukhovka, Khmelnitsk region, Ukraine. Photo by N. Mamonova)
What role will small farms play in the future?
Natalia MamonovaI do not share the pessimistic views that smallholder farming will gradually disappear in the post-Soviet countryside. Some experts argue that personal subsidiary farming is backward and inefficient and will be soon displaced by the supposedly modern and efficientlarge-scale agriculture. I disagree. Small-scale farming has a huge socio-ecological resilience potential and it is as a safety net for millions of people. Moreover, in my study, I prove that post-Soviet household farming is actually resource-efficient, highly productive, and entails social, economic, and ecological benefits for the population as a whole.
Ludmila is watching her 5 cows returning home after grazing. 17 households in the Krasnoye village keep livestock (approx. 2-4 cows per household, 66 cows in total). They jointly organise the grazing: based on a rotation principle, every household provides a herder with a horse for a week to take the herd to pasture. (village Krasnoye, Grachyovsk district, Stavropol Krai, Russia. Photo by N. Mamonova).
Furthermore, there is a growing demand for organic farm products among Russian and Ukrainian population, which could be met bysmallholders. Recently, international organizations  such as Organic World and theResearch Institute of Organic Agriculture (FiBL) launched several campaigns for the development of organic farming in Ukraine. They argued that the country could become the largest organic food supplier to the European market, having 300,000 ha of land that can be certified under the EU Organic Farming standards.In my recent study on Ukraine, I revealed that the prospects of Euro-integration generated a discourse on ecological, economic and health benefits ofsmallholders production that, supposedly, would be popular on the European market as an equivalent to organic farming. Therefore, I think,small-scale farmingwill persist and develop in parallel tolarge-scale industrial agriculture.
A version of this article first appeared in Large Scale Agriculturewhere other interesting articles on similar topics by Natalia Mamonova can be found.


















Industrial FarmingLand grabbingruralukraine

 


			About Natalia Mamonova		


					4 Articles				



			Natalia Mamonova is a researcher at the Russia and Eurasia Programme of the Swedish Institute of International Affairs in Stockholm and the coordinator of the European branch of the Emancipatory Rural Politics Initiative (ERPI Europe). She did her PhD at the Institute of Social Studies of Erasmus University, the Netherlands. Her dissertation was about rural politics in contemporary Russia and Ukraine. Two of her single-authored articles ('Resistance or adaptation? Ukrainian peasants' responses to land grabbing' and 'Naive Monarchism and Rural Resistance in Contemporary Russia') received 'The Best Article' awards from Erasmus University in 2016 and 2017, respectively. After completing her PhD, Natalia was a visiting researcher at the University of Oxford, the 'New Europe College' in Bucharest, and Helsinki University.		


PreviousAmmonia Pollution | The role of CAP and Northern Irelands State Funders

NextBhutan | Spearheading a Transition to Organics?



Related Articles




 

				Recent updates			



			80 per cent of all antibiotics in the US given to healthy animals		


7 February, 2014
Marek Kryda
Recent updates


This alarming message is coming from the only microbiologist in Congress in response to a newly released FDA regulation. []
 




 

				Main stories			



			French mobilise against agri-industrialiation & TTIP/CETA		


28 October, 2014
Peter Crosskey
Main stories, Recent updates


Hundreds of French peasants + many mobilisations = 1 cause []
 




 

				Latest from EU Member States			



			Illegal stocking levels at Mille Vaches		


12 June, 2015
ARC
Latest from EU Member States, Recent updates


Illegal stocking levels have been uncovered at contraversial French Dairy Factory Farm Mille Vaches. Peter Crosskey Reports. []
 






ARC2020 Newsletter
Sign up for our monthly newsletter on agri-food, rural, environmental policy and practices around Europe.
Rural Dialogues  Lets talk!
Introducing our next debate series  rural dialogues. What is the state of play for rural Europe? Are rural places still lagging behind  forgotten, disadvantaged and in need of extra supports? Or is there a rural renaissance of sorts occurring, from smart villages to innovation hubs? Tell us what you know and lets get talking! Find the series here.
Letter From A Farm
Who grows the food we eat? Who sows the seeds, tends the soil, picks the fruits and harvests the carrots? At ARC, we want to put faces to our food.
Tweets by @ARC2020eu 
Tweets by @ARC2020euContributors wanted
Interested in European food, farming and rural policy matters? Do you have great writing skills and an ability to deliver content accurately and on time? Then you could be just what were looking for! Find out more here.
  

 




										France, Agroecology & the Coming CAP Reform									


27 June, 2019


 

 




										Vertical Farming ShootsOrganic in the Foot?									


21 June, 2019


 

 




										Rural Dialogues | Peasants of Nature  French Initiative Reconciles Agriculture & Biodiversity									


20 June, 2019


 

 




										Rural Dialogues | Landcare Germany  Bringing Farmers, Conservationists & Policymakers Together									


17 June, 2019


 

 




										New MEPs, the Green Wave and the Quest for a Climate Friendly CAP									


13 June, 2019


 

 




										Germany | Where Does the Daily Bread Come From?									


11 June, 2019


 

 




										Farm Diversification  Agroforestry and Agritourism in Ireland									


10 June, 2019


 

 




										The Challenge of Making UK Ruminant Production Sustainable									


5 June, 2019


 

 




										Letter from a Farm  Diverse Systems & Diverse Skills									


4 June, 2019


 

 




										Part 2: Where now for Por Otra PAC?									


30 May, 2019


 

 




										Part I: Spanish Coalition Por Otra PAC is Born									


29 May, 2019


 

 




										Part 2 EU-Mercosur Trade Deal | A Road to Nowhere for Farmers?									


28 May, 2019


 

 




										Rural Dialogues | Agroecology and a Living Countryside in the Netherlands									


27 May, 2019


 

 




										Agriculture Atlas | The Pillage of Pillar 2									


26 May, 2019


 

 




										Announcing the Agriculture Atlas									


23 May, 2019


 

 




										Rural Dialogues | Best Immigration Practice can help Alleviate Rural Depopulation									


20 May, 2019


 

 




										Rural Dialogues | What are the 3 As of Feeding Ourselves in Ireland?									


19 May, 2019


 

 




										Rural Dialogues | Radical Old Ideas Gaining Ground in New Rural America									


15 May, 2019


 

 




										Rural Dialogues | Transition Presents an Unprecedented Opportunity for Rural Revival									


15 May, 2019


 

 




										Digitization in Romanian Agriculture  Three Appropriate Solutions									


14 May, 2019


 

 




										Part 1 EU-Mercosur Trade Deal | the Bolsonaro Era									


12 May, 2019


 

 




										Whats Farming got to do with the 1m Species Threatened with Extinction? 10 Key reads									


9 May, 2019


 

 




										Calling on the Next EP for a Common Food Policy									


8 May, 2019


 

 




										Rural dialogues  Lets talk!									


5 May, 2019


 

 




										Is Carbon Neutrality Possible with Agroecology?									


29 April, 2019


   




			 2019 Agricultural and Rural Convention		


Contact
Imprint
Data Privacy
 










We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with this. OKMore information


