








      Skip to main content
    
















Search



Search


Popular Searches


Iran


North Korea


Turkey


Syria


China


Mexico


Russia


Venezuela


Iraq



































Trending


North Korea


Tariffs


Hong Kong


Iran


China






Member Login






Topics




All Topics


Defense & Security


Diplomacy & International Institutions


Economics


Energy & Environment


Health


Human Rights


Politics & Government


Social Issues






Regions




All Regions


Americas


Asia


Europe & Eurasia


Global Commons


Middle East & North Africa


Oceania


Sub-Saharan Africa






Think Tank




More Think Tank


CFR Experts


Centers & Programs


Blogs


In the News


Publications


Fellowships






CFR Presents




CFR Presents


Events


Series


Explainers


Quizzes


Podcasts


Conference Calls


Independent Task Force Program






CFR Campus




All CFR Campus


About CFR Campus


Programs


Teaching Notes


Model Diplomacy


World101






About CFR




All About CFR


Membership


Member Programs


Outreach


For Media


Careers


Support CFR


Contact









































Member Login





































ForeignAffairs.com



ForeignAffairs.com











































































    from                                    Greenberg Center for Geoeconomic Studies
                       and                     Energy Security and Climate Change Program





Advancing Natural Gas Reform in Ukraine













      A Ukrainian worker checks gas valves of the main natural gas pipeline at the gas-compressor station in Boyarka village near Kiev, Ukraine, on April 22, 2015.
              STR/NurPhoto via Getty Images

 The Donald J. Trump administration should place energy-sector reform at the center of its relationship with Ukraine. Doing so would constitute a low-risk, high-reward strategy for Washington to counter Moscows influence at the NATO border.


            December 03, 2018
          








































Download PDF
















      A Ukrainian worker checks gas valves of the main natural gas pipeline at the gas-compressor station in Boyarka village near Kiev, Ukraine, on April 22, 2015.
              STR/NurPhoto via Getty Images





Report








                  Sagatom Saha
                  

                  Energy Policy Analyst, DiXi Group
                







                  Ilya Zaslavskiy
                  

                  Head of Research, Free Russia Foundation 
                





A prerequisite for Ukraines economic and political success is reform of its energy sector. Enduring corruption and mismanagement in the energy sector have generated pernicious budget deficits, eroded sovereignty, jeopardized energy security, and limited economic potential. Ukraine has been remarkably slow to introduce market reforms, and its sclerotic energy sector is at the center of its economic dysfunction. Ukraines energy sector remains a drain on taxpayers, a playground for corrupt oligarchs, and an unattractive destination for international investment.





                  Sagatom Saha
                  

                  Energy Policy Analyst, DiXi Group
                





                  Ilya Zaslavskiy
                  

                  Head of Research, Free Russia Foundation 
                




Beginning in 2015, Ukraine moved to cut implicit subsidies on natural gas, adopted laws to restructure the state-owned oil and gas company Naftogaz, and halted imports of Russian gas.Unfortunately, Ukraines energy-sector reforms to date do not go far enough. To achieve lasting reform, Ukraine must curtail its population-wide subsidies, reinforce the independence of its energy regulator, and dismantle the monopolies that exist in every segment of the natural gas sector. The benefits that would result from these steps are manifold.
More on:

Ukraine


Geopolitics of Energy


Energy and Climate Policy


Russia


Oil and Petroleum Products

A prosperous and energy-secure Ukraine, capable of standing up to Russian interventionism, would advance U.S. foreign policy objectives in the region. Recognizing this, Washington already provides technical, financial, and military assistance to Kiev. But the United States can and should do more to help it achieve politically and technically complex reforms. Applying greater diplomatic pressure, providing technical assistance, and offering targeted financial incentivesand disincentivescould speed the pace of Ukraines reform efforts. The Donald J. Trump administration, which has not yet articulated a clear strategy toward the country, should place energy-sector reform at the center of its relationship with Ukraine.
More on:

Ukraine


Geopolitics of Energy


Energy and Climate Policy


Russia


Oil and Petroleum Products







                  Sagatom Saha
                  

                  Energy Policy Analyst, DiXi Group
                







                  Ilya Zaslavskiy
                  

                  Head of Research, Free Russia Foundation 
                























      Explore More on Ukraine
      






            Ukraine
          




Champions for Change: The Power of Women Peacemakers and Peacebuilders in Ukraine






Champions for Change is a series highlighting male allies working to advance equality across the globe. In this post, parting Chief Monitor of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission, Ambassador Apakan, reflects on his experiences in integrating a focus on gender equality issues in matters of peace and security; from his years in the UN Security Council to experiences on the ground in Ukraine.


Blog Post
by Guest Blogger for the Women and Foreign Policy Program
 June 3, 2019

                    Women Around the World
                







            Ukraine
          




Why Ukraine Might Make a TV Actor Its President






Ukraines presidential campaignthe first since the upheavals of 2014is drawing to a close, and the most improbable of candidates has taken the lead. Could he really become the countrys next president?


by Stephen Sestanovich
 March 25, 2019

                    Europe Program
                














      Top Stories on CFR
      






            European Union
          




How Does the European Union Work?






The EUs authority has steadily expanded as its members have passed more and more decision-making power to the union. How do its institutions work?


Backgrounder
by James McBride
 June 27, 2019







            United States Presidential Election (2020)
          




Issue Guide: The First 2020 Democratic Presidential Debates 






The Democratic field could touch on a number of foreign policy issues, from climate change to Iran, during its first prime-time sparring session.


by CFR.org Editors
 June 21, 2019







            Southeast Asia
          




Making Sense of the ASEAN Summit







Blog Post
by Joshua Kurlantzick
 June 25, 2019

                    Asia Unbound
                






















About CFR


Think Tank


Support CFR


For Media


Careers


Contact Us




 





Daily News Brief
Sign up for a morning roundup of news and analysis from around the world.







Url



Email Address








    Thanks for signing up!       




    Check your Email Address.
  

Browse more CFR newsletters







































2019 Council on Foreign Relations.
All rights reserved.

Privacy Policy and
      Terms of Use.
    










