



 










About company



Brands



Contact us





en


ua
 


















BERTA group  national distributor of food and non-food products


Choice of manufacturers among the best distributors of Ukraine














30 000
SALES POINTS





72
SUPPLIERS





210

Brands






2100
EMPLOYEES





10
REGIONS





13
Logistics centers














About company






 
Oleksandr Berezhanskyi

CEO, founder of the company






About company
BERTA group is an Ukrainian distribution company with over 26 years of successful history. During this period weve grown to a very strong and stable national company with leader ambitions from the small regional company. Weve became the best partner of 2017 among the food goods distributors.


Our dream is to provide the wide range of food and non-food goods to the stores in the most remote areas of our country.


We aimed to help every manufacturer to find their place on the store shelves and get the high quality service.
Thats why we build the best distribution company in Ukraine!



Today 70 manufacturers entrusted the distribution of their brands to us. They are both global transnational companies like Nestle, Mars, Henkel, LOreal and a wide range of leading Ukrainian manufacturers.

13 logistic complexes, 200 delivery vehicles, more than 2000 highly qualified employees provide a wide range of products to more than 30 000 stores in 10 Ukrainian regions. About 7 million people have an opportunity to buy high quality goods every day.

All this became possible due to the best team in Ukraine!

  They are team-minded and motivated people united with the common goal - to bring your goods closer to people.



Oleksandr Berezhanskyi


CEO, founder of the company














Principles and values











       People sell goods to people thats why trust is so crucial. Our selling  teams form the most valuable component of our company. We are constantly improving our skills and upgrade the knowledge of the employees. 


We believe in the innovations and invest a lot to the new technologies and information systems. That helps reach the high level of the delivery process from the supplier to the end customer and makes it faster and cheaper.


          


We trust that open relations with our clients on the equal level is the key to the successful business management. We are stable and sincere that makes us the best partner on the market.
        

 Our mission is to provide every Ukrainian with a wide range of goods that he can find in the stores next to his home, even if he lives in the most remote area of the county.

     











210 brands in our portfolio









Many years ago, in 1992 we started the collaboration with our first global partner - WRIGLEY company. We didnt know a lot of things those days. We made mistakes and ran out of deadlines, but those fails made us stronger and more experienced!
Today we cherish huge gratefulness to WRIGLEY team for understanding, support and wise pieces of advice. That was so precious for us!
That taught us that team work and experienced partners form the basis of the company development.
Only in synergy the high results could be reached. Attention to the tiniest details gives the best results.
WRIGLEY, which is the brand of the MARS company, still stays one of the principal clients in our portfolio.
Many years of collaboration with the world brands like Kraft (Jacobs, Mondelz), MARS, Nestle gave us a great motivation to develop in accordance to the world standards.

Weve been working with Nestle for 20 years already and during this time we became one of the biggest distributors of this company in Ukraine.
Compliance to the distribution standarts of Nestle makes us the best on the market.
Collaboration with the international companies extends our portfolio with the well-known companies like Henkel, Loreal, Colgate, SC Jonson, Benckiser, Johnson & Johnson and many others.
Nowadays we can claim that the main brand categories are: confectionary, grocery, coffee and tea group, pet food, cosmetics, household chemistry, baby food, medical means and textile group.
We are looking forward to working with you thats why we invite you to become a part of our big partner family BERTA group.









Food products

Confectionery





























































Food products

Grocery































Food products

Coffee and tea and refreshments





































Food products

Pet food


































Food products

Baby nutrition
















Non-food products

Hygiene and beauty















































































Non-food products

Household goods





































Non-food products

Medical means































Non-food products

Textile
































Contact us




212, B.Khmelnitsky str, Lviv, Ukraine






info@berta.ua







0-800-601-100













