









Toggle navigation












Regions 

Africa
Americas
Asia and Oceania
Europe



General 

World Leaders
United Nations
United Nations Related Agencies
World Statistics


Forum
 











Encyclopedia of the Nations
 Europe
 Ukraine




      Ukraine - Agriculture
    












Photo by: jo












        Ukraine is blessed with rich farming and forestry resources. According
        to the 
        
          Statistical Year Book of Ukraine
        
         (1996), about 71 percent of the country's surface (41 million
        hectares) was used for agricultural activities. 
        

         About 80 percent of the agricultural area is arable land, two-thirds of
        it the agriculturally rich black soil (chernozem). The
        primary food harvest products are barley, maize, potatoes, rice,
        soybeans, sugar beets, and wheat. The primary meat products are beef and
        veal, lamb, pork, chicken, horse, and rabbit. In terms of value, the
        largest agricultural exports in 1998 were refined sugar, raw sugar, beef
        and veal, sunflower seed, and fish. The total value of agricultural
        exports in 1998 estimated $1.898 billion. The total value of
        agricultural imports in 1998 was $999 million. The largest single crop
        produced in 1999 was potatoes at 15.4 million metric tons. The
        number-two crop was sugar beets at 13.89 million metric tons, followed
        by wheat at 13.47 million metric tons. The main livestock product was
        beef and veal with 786,000 metric tons, followed by swine with 668,000
        tons, and chicken with 194,500 tons.
      

        In recent years, agricultural production has declined drastically
        because of a decrease in the number of tractors and combine harvesters
        in working order and to the lack of fertilizers and pesticides.
        According to official data, between 1991 and 1997, the number of
        tractors in use decreased from 497,300 to 361,000. (In order to operate
        efficiently, it is estimated that the country would need 515,000
        tractors in use.) Similar shortfalls exist for harvesting combines.
        Between 1990 and 1997, the consumption of pesticides and fertilizers per
        hectare declined about 78 percent. From 1995 to 1999, crop production
        declined by an average of almost 10 percent per year, while livestock
        production declined by an average of 9 percent per year. These
        shortfalls in agricultural inputs reflect declining investment in
        agriculture, and feed directly into declining production.
      

        Under communism, agricultural lands were held by the government and
        worked by the people, who owned no land. Privatization planned to shift
        most such land into the hands of individuals and farming collectives
        (jointly held farming cooperatives). By August 1995, the transfer of
        lands into private hands had begun. Over 8 million hectares of land had
        been privatized, with plots averaging 5 hectares. By 1996, most of the
        agricultural land in Ukraine was in collective and private hands,
        although 40 percent was still owned by the government. Household plots
        and private farms accounted for about 15 percent of the Ukrainian
        territory and they filled an important role in the delivery of products
        to the marketplace.
      

        In general, the agricultural sector is experiencing serious internal
        difficulties, due to the transitional nature of the economy. A new
        policy and direction for Ukraine's agricultural sector is
        necessary. Agriculture poses the greatest challenge to the survival of
        Ukraine's political leaders, because almost half of the
        Ukraine's population live in rural areas.
      




User Contributions:
 1 Trond MartinAug 17, 2012 @ 12:00 amIm an Norwegian man who nearly lived permanent in Ukrain the last 2 year. I have find a lot of intresting agroculture produckts with a lot of positive helse efects, as eks Jerusalem artistock. My following question, is it posibel to find some cind of list over this spesifick produsers ?
I hope and look forward for some cind of guide of products.

Best regards
Trond Martin Maliberg 2 TobiasSep 26, 2018 @ 11:11 amThe big offensive, the attack of the very sharp ended western capitalism towards the whole Ukraine is going on. It is trying to create a full mess is created in the agricultural sector in Ukraine. The foreign big bank-assorted companies are trying to extinguish the local activities and the full rural entrepreneurship. In this ugly play the players try to create various kinds of shortages or bottleneck for only for their own advantage. No matter what is the national economy if the turnover does not go directly or indirectly into the pockets of the speculators. And speculators are, in this atmosphere, rather openly invited from all possible directions (but Russia), preferably anywhere in the countries living under NATO-illusionism and of course, from the most potential occupiers, over all the little state USA. 3 Kamal SoniMay 2, 2019 @ 6:06 amWe trade, process and exports Peanuts, Seeds, Raisins, Chickpeas, Spices and Spices Powder, Coconut and Cocoa Powder, Dry fruits and Nuts and other origin products also many other agriculture products.
We also provides market analysis, quality control, shipment control, care after deliver goods to make optimal deal and reach satisfaction level of our customer and it will help us to keep our customer for long term. If our customer trust justified, they will keep buying from us for long time , and all buyer always want one trust-able company.
Our company has already satisfied many customers with our exemplary customer services.


Comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:





Name:



E-mail:



Show my email publicly



Type the code shown:








Public Comment: (50-4000 characters)





 Send comment



 
Ukraine forum


 
				Switzerland
 
				 United Kingdom





 2019 Advameg, Inc.



 




