








 WE CARE & DELIVER
 
UKRAINE | ISRAEL | GEORGIA
 | UK

 




 



 



 


 






Search for:




About SMO

Mission, vision & values
Our team
SMO UK
SMO Ukraine
SMO Israel
SMO Georgia


Our services

Storage capabilities
General services
Pharm Express Logistics
Sourcing of comparators
Patient centricity 

Patient transfer
Patient transfer booking
Direct to Patient
Nursing Service
Accommodation Service
Patient food


Equipment rental
Demand led supply


Quality guarantees
News

Events
Clinical Trials News
Downloads


Contact us

Patient transfer booking


SMO Online
Menu 













SMO Ukraine 




SMO-Ukraine Agency LLC and its warehouses were established in 2004, aiming to provide a dedicated and specialized service to the Pharmaceutical industries and CRO companies within the rapidly expanding Ukrainian clinical trials market.
After just a few years it has gained a reputation as a leading provider of logistics services for clinical trials in the Ukraine.
Ukraine country information
In the past 10 years the number of clinical trials in Ukraine has demonstrated rapid growth. In 2012, a record-breaking number of 213 international trials were reached with the participation of Ukrainians patients.
Ukraine still offers an attractive combination of relatively low logistics costs, access to a large native population and a high speed of enrolment. Moreover, the genetic similarity of Ukrainians to other European populations, proves to be beneficial when new drugs are tested that are specifically designed for the use of Europeans.
Ukraine has a perfect location as it is close to the EU countries, where large pharmaceutical companies and global logistics vendors have their base.
Deliveries of Investigational Medicinal Products and Clinical Trials Supply materials in Ukraine do not take more than two days. There are no significant climate differences between its various regions. Hence, fast deliveries with a low risk of temperature deviations are very probable.
Excellent reasons to choose Ukraine as a location for your clinical trials:

According to expert analysis. The pharmaceutical field is still considered to be one of the most attractive for investment.
Scientists together with the manufacturers are deeply interested in the development of the industry in general.
Ukrainian professionals are a symbiosis between chemists, pharmacologists, toxicologists and pharmacists who are known to have an optimistic view of the future.
The Legislative and regulatory aspects are constantly developing and improving. This fact, together with the growing number of clinical trials, ensures that the environment will constantly become better and more favourable.


 BREXIT White Paper







What it means for the clinical supply chain. As the UK plans to leave the EU, do you wait and see if your clinical trial wouldnt be disrupted? You can take preemptive action download SMOs White Paper. Read More about SMO Brexit Whitepaper

 Our services







SMO Group is one of the leading clinical trial logistics service providers in Ukraine and Israel. Operations adhere to the highest standards through cost effective and responsive solutions. Read More about Our services

 Contact SMO







For further information and to contact SMO Group in Ukraine, Israel, Georgia or the UK please email or telephone us to see what we can do for you. Read More about Contact us







 
 



							STORAGE CAPABILITIES							 
All of our warehouses include controlled temperature storage, site distribution, 24/7 security and backup power generators.

							 More							 






 
 



							GENERAL SERVICES							 
We provide import/export regulatory and customs support, delivery and transport, materials and equipment.

							 More							 






 
 



							PHARM EXPRESS LOGISTICS							 
We transport with quality and care using up-to-date technology to monitor shipments. Our personnel are highly trained.

							 More							 






 
 



							PATIENT TRANSFER							 
Patients are escorted by trained staff, transfered quickly and safely, to and from clinics. Fast telephone booking service.

							 More							 



 










 


 


 

 
 Our mission, vision and values
 The team
 Quality guarantees
 Privacy Policy
 Disclaimer
 Site Map
 Sourcing of comparators

 
 About SMO Group
 Our services
 Storage capabilities
 Pharm Express
 Transfer for patients
 News
 Patient centricity

 
SMO Headquarters:
 Ipswich, UK
SMO Depots:
 Kiev, Ukraine
 Caesarea, Israel
 Tbilisi, Georgia

 
Pharm Express Logistics:
 Kiev, Ukraine
 SMO Online
 Contact SMO Group

 All rights reservedSMO Group 2004-2019.

 
A SiteOrigin Theme




















SMO Group use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkInfo




