














Our Team
About our Company
Contacts
News
Our Services
FAQ




Report a claim 
Our global medical network
Join our network


24/7 call center
+34 931 70 22 86
+371 676 60731
















AP Companies medical provider network consists of more than 37 700 providers worldwide.









Health care in Ukraine
Doctors and Health Centres
Doctors are known as a likar and are the first point of contact with the Ukrainian health system. Citizens can register with the doctor of their choice, however, people seeking state medical care must make sure that their doctor is contracted into the health scheme. If you are treated by a doctor whether or not the doctor is covered by the state you will have to pay a fee.
GPs prescribe drugs, treat acute and chronic illnesses, and provide preventive care and health education.
Waiting times to see doctors vary and it is advised that you make an appointment in advance. If you need urgent help, you may go to the doctors surgery on speculation, but be prepared for a long wait.
Health centres in Ukraine are in an extremely poor state. The medical facilities are of a poor standard compared to Western standards; the medical equipment and facilities are in short supply compared to the high demand. All services, including doctors and nurses cost a lot of money which makes health care in health centres not always a feasible option for the ordinary citizen. The doctors and nurses who work in the health centres are not always fully trained in the health system.  
Consultants
Consultants are senior doctors who have completed a higher level of specialised training. GPs refer patients to a Consultant if he believes that a patient may need specialist help and diagnosis. There are very few consultants in Ukraine, which therefore makes a high waiting list to see the Consultant doctors. The consultants are no different to a doctor in terms of them still asking for a fee, normally higher than a normal doctor due to their higher level medical skills.
Hospitals
Hospitals and clinics exist in all major towns and cities of Ukraine, but are nowhere near the standard which is required in Ukraine. Hospitals are dirty and the level of care in extremely low due to staff shortages. Patients are admitted to hospital either through the emergency department or through a referral by their doctor. Once a patient is admitted treatment is controlled by one of the hospital doctors. All hospital doctors require a fee which makes hospitalisation difficult for its citizens. Doctors and nurses are in short supply due to low wages which is resulting in doctors and nurses going abroad and offering their services. There may be a waiting list for some non-emergency treatments and services.
Emergency Care
Emergency care is supposedly to be free for everyone including those without state health insurance. However, once your condition is stabilised the doctor will probably ask for a fee for their services due to the low wages that the state provides. Emergency departments are open non-stop all year. You may use their services if you need immediate attention, or if your GP refers you to them, or if there is no GP service available.
Private Clinics
There are a few private practices in Ukraine which are provided by independent office-based doctors and specialists. The premises are funded largely by private insurance contributions, but it is used only by a small minority of people, often as a top up to the basic state healthcare and to cover them for the services deemed non-essential. The private hospitals are cleaner and the comfort factor is a lot higher than a state hospital, there are no waiting lists, but then there is a higher fee, which is not always a feasible option for the ordinary citizen. 
Dentists
Dental care in Ukraine is expensive and not very many citizens can afford the dental care that is necessary, all dentist services are private in Ukraine. Dentists are known as a zubnyy likar. Dentists can be found in major cities of Ukraine normally where the income of the citizens are of the amount where they can afford dental care.
Pharmacies
Dispensing chemists known as an apteka sell medicines in Ukraine. Prescriptions known as prypysannia are generally not needed to buy medicines, which are normally tightly monitored in Western countries. There are many pharmacies throughout Ukraine and the cost of medicine from a pharmacy can be expensive as there is no monitoring of drug prices. Many pharmacies in the major cities are open 24 hours, so there is always access to pharmacy medicines. 












Send your resume




First name and surname



E-mail address



Tel. number








































Our Team
About our Company
Contacts
News
Our Services
FAQ



+34 931 70 22 86


REPORTa claim






 











 







 



 



 






























Send a message









Your name



E-mail



Tel. number



Your message






























Find a nearest medical provider





Each of our Clients has a direct access to our on-line provider database  the Portal. The Portal it's our own database of providers all over the world, developed in a way to give you and your insured access mode on-line to the full list of providers, in the regions where AP Companies provide services. If you already have your personal login and password



Login



Password
































     ,     .










       



 




 





   





 





 





  








 C, ,     /, e-mail



.




















 




 





 





 



 


















     .?












































