                 Estonia Latvia Lithuania Business Analysis Opinion Culture EU Affairs         Go                    ONLINE - FROM ONLY 0.99 EUR A WEEK! e-TBT - FROM ONLY 0.99 EUR A WEEK! PRINT - FROM 1.76 EUR A WEEK          Ukraine offers EU consumers 12 bcm of space to rent in underground gas storage facilities   2019-03-26  Interfax/TBT Staff  Photo: utg.uaKYIV - If Russia stops transporting natural gas across Ukrainian territory in 2020, Ukraine may offer European customers about 12 billion cubic meters of space to rent in its underground storage facilities, Ukrtransgaz said in a statement.
The unused capacity of the Ukrainian gas transport system would make it possible to accumulate the necessary amount of gas in the storage facilities and guarantee uninterrupted supply to consumers during the 2019-2020 fall and winter period without threats to the EU's energy security, the statement said.
The company cited Hungary, which consumes about 10 billion cubic meters of gas annually, as an example. Two thirds of this amount is shipped to Hungary from Russia across Ukraine, about 20% is produced by Hungary itself, and the rest is imported from Austria. About 60% of gas shipped to the Baumgarten gas hub in Austria also comes through the Ukrainian gas transport system.
This considered, Ukrainian underground gas storage facilities may help Hungary ensure uninterrupted gas supply to its domestic consumers next winter even if Russia halts gas transport across Ukrainian territory to EU countries after January 1, 2020, Ukrtransgaz said.
The maximum amount of gas that can be exported to Hungary from these facilities is 68 million cubic meters, which is 4.5 times more than the daily capacity (15 million cubic meters) of the gas transport corridor from Austria to Hungary, it said.
The utilization of such significant capacity of the Ukrainian gas transport system will help considerably lower the risks of an emergency in Hungary's gas transport system. Ukraine stands ready to offer similar services and capacity to suppliers from other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Ukrtransgaz said.
Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto earlier said his country was concerned about the chance of receiving Russian gas through Ukraine after 2019.
The Ukrainian underground gas storage system comprises 12 underground gas storage facilities with an aggregate capacity of 31 billion cubic meters. The maximum daily amount of gas that can be taken from underground storage facilities may reach 260 million cubic meters.
It was reported earlier that a 10-year gas transport contract between Naftogaz of Ukraine and Russia's Gazprom would expire on January 1, 2020. Gazprom is currently not holding active negotiations to sign a new contract to ship gas across Ukraine and is actively promoting the Nord Stream 2 and TurkStream gas pipeline projects.
Naftogaz believes it is highly likely that Gazprom will halt gas transport via Ukraine in 2020 after completing construction of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.
      Comments         Related Articles     Russia not interested in instability in Europe - Putin      European course Moldova's only development path - PM      Russian, U.S., EU representatives arriving in Chisinau                       Subscribe Advertise Log In        Please enter your username and password.            Forgot your password?  Login                      Related Articles    European Development Days 2019 kick-started in Brussels      Some 68% of Ukrainians would back EU entry at referendum      Council of Europe urges Moldovan authorities to follow rule of law principles      Chizhov hopes new EU leaders will try to rebuild trust with Russia          Subscribe!  A subscription to The Baltic Times is a cost-effective way of staying in touch with the latest Baltic news and views enabling you full access from anywhere with an Internet connection. Subscribe Now!  About The Baltic Times  The Baltic Times is an independent monthly newspaper that covers latest political, economic, business, and cultural events in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Born of a merger between The Baltic Independent and The Baltic Observer in 1996, The Baltic Times continues to bring objective, comprehensive, and timely information to those with an interest in this rapidly developing area of the Baltic Sea region. Read more... Our news analysis and commentaries provide readers with insight essential to understanding the three Baltic countries and their neighbors. With offices in Tallinn and Vilnius and its headquarters in Riga, The Baltic Times remains the only pan-Baltic English language newspaper offering complete coverage of regional events. Publisher: Gene ZolotarevEditor in chief: Linas JegeleviciusCulture editor: culture@baltictimes.comOnline editor: anna@baltictimes.com     Contact Us    LATVIA Rupniecibas 1-5, LV 1010, Riga, Tel. (+371)6722 9978 Fax (+371)6722 6041 Editorial: editor@baltictimes.com Subscription: subscription@baltictimes.com Advertising: adv@baltictimes.com      ESTONIA estonia@baltictimes.com     LITHUANIA lithuania@baltictimes.com     Stay Connected                 2019  The Baltic Times Cookies Policy Made by EffectBoost               